Peripheral Visions

(base) flyxion@volsorium:~/psygen/text$ for file in * ; do
>     echo "Checking $file";
>     ollama run mistral "Summarize:" < "$file";
> done

Checking 'What' is 'the World'？
 The speaker explores the idea that Earth is a being and not just an object or a thing. They discuss how ancient cultures may have viewed
planets, stars, and space and suggests that the sun, moon, and earth are transcendental beings rather than objects. The speaker also
touches on the limitations of language in describing such concepts and encourages open-mindedness and direct experience. They share stories
of indigenous perspectives on the sun, moon, and Earth as beings and emphasize the importance of understanding multiple ways of knowing and
perceiving reality.

Checking (k)EngLish and Negation
 The speaker discusses how languages carry "payloads," or hidden meanings and inclinations that shape the way we think about identity,
meaning, transactions, and relationships. English, in particular, has a strong us versus them principle and encourages megalomania due to
its historical development. The speaker argues that older languages may have more complex and rich payloads but also dangerous parts, and
suggests that becoming aware of language's influence can help us make better linguistic choices and modify our relationship with
categories. The goal is to recognize and surpass the limitations of language and inhabit a position above it for a more nuanced
understanding of the world.

Checking 0 1 ｜ Origin ｜ Agent
 The speaker explores the paradoxical nature of language and negation, using the examples of statements that are true and false. They argue
that language does not tell us what it means and that our minds collapse into statements, leading to confusion between the two. The speaker
suggests that this issue is deeply entrenched in human consciousness and can be seen in various aspects of culture and society. They also
discuss the importance of understanding the origin of ideas and concepts and the potential consequences when we lose sight of it.
Throughout the text, the speaker encourages a more conscious relationship with language and a willingness to question and explore the
nuances of meaning.

Checking 80⧸20 and Beyond： False Collectives Instance False Persons as Us
 Darren Stevenson speaks about the complex nature of communication and perception in a frame of time, where both the speaker and the
audience exist in different moments. He argues against labels and definitions, stating that everyone is unspecified and constantly
changing. He criticizes the societal emphasis on jobs, money, and measurements, suggesting instead a focus on fluid roles, relationships,
and ecological intelligence. He encourages embracing our animal nature and forming intelligent teams to navigate the field of possibilities
together. He warns against false authorities and rigid structures and emphasizes the importance of self-correcting and non-dogmatic
intimacy. He expresses a desire for learning and living with humans and environments, rather than focusing on films or money.

Checking A Cognitive Analogy： Peripheral Vision
 The speaker is reflecting on various topics, including their experience of feeding birds in the park leading to territorial conflicts
between birds, the importance of being present with one's feet and feelings, and the idea of peripheral vision and its significance in
consciousness and thought. They also discuss the influence of modern society and technology on our awareness and perception, and the need
to be mindful of overlooking subtle aspects of our intelligence and emotions. The speaker encourages experimentation with peripheral vision
and the practice of gazing to broaden one's visual experience. They reflect on the importance of being aware of the potential for our
modern circumstances to overwhelm and hide delicate faculties, and the need to recover ancient wisdom through conscious effort.

Checking A Dream from Beyond
 This individual is sharing their reflections on dreaming and the unique experiences they have had during their dreams. They express how
dreaming has transformed throughout their life and the profound impact some dreams have had. The person also shares stories of specific
dreams where they encountered new forms of life or underwent transformations. They ponder the relationship between dreaming and
consciousness and suggest that dreaming might be the origin of waking world minds. The individual encourages paying intelligent attention
to dreams while being cautious not to take them too seriously.

Checking A Fragment： The Pupils, Death, Ancestors, Love
 The speaker describes how each person has different groups of people surrounding them, including critics, heroes, friends, helpers, and
lovers. The right eye represents the critics and the left eye represents loved ones. The pupil in the center represents the individual, who
opens up to receive all experiences and influences, but can shrink if there is too much criticism or overwhelming brightness. The "donut
hole" around the pupil represents the space used for action and communication, which cannot be seen by the individual but can be observed
by others to understand the purpose behind actions. This concept is compared to death, as it is a necessary space to let in light and
intelligence.

Checking A Matter of Not Time ｜ Knowledge
 The speaker is reflecting on their relationship with knowledge and language, expressing uncertainty about what they are talking about and
the potential for consciousness to collapse into declarative statements or abstractions. They discuss the problematic nature of knowledge
as a concept, equating it with death in certain traditions, and expressing suspicion towards its ability to falsify identity and collapse
relational spaces into declarations. The speaker also explores the idea that all beings engage in recognition through various forms of
signaling, and that this signal of recognition is deeply resonant and sacred. They conclude by emphasizing the importance of remaining
sensitive to our relationships with knowledge and being mindful of the potential for language and ideas to drag us into counterfeit
realities.

Checking A Plague of Imagery ： The Questions
 The speaker reflects on the impact of technology, particularly photography and social media, on our relationship with imagination and the
natural world. They share a thought experiment of imagining being in a forest and experiencing nature through our senses, contrasting it
with the experience of viewing images. The speaker argues that the over-reliance on images can lead to the underdevelopment of our
imagination, which is a crucial faculty for learning, understanding ourselves, and connecting with others. They also caution against the
environmental cost of storing and transmitting large amounts of data, and invite us to pause and consider the consequences of our actions
before continuing down the path of technology use.

Checking A Quick Note： Persons are Communities
 The speaker argues that the concept of individual humans as separate entities is a falsehood and that each person is actually a part of a
larger community. They suggest that our language and ideas impose artificial boundaries, making it difficult to understand the deep
connections between individuals and their communities, which include not just other human beings but also animals, plants, knowledge,
dreaming, and being alive. The speaker acknowledges that some people may be isolated, but even they are still part of a community, albeit
one where relationships are primarily represented through tokens like TV shows or products rather than authentic relationships with others.
The speaker laments that modern civilization is skilled at both imposing and concealing this reality, making it essential for us to
recognize the communal foundation underlying all beings and strive towards authentic connections.

Checking A View from Above
 The speaker is expressing the importance of recognizing that machines, including cameras, do not have feelings or consciousness, unlike
humans. They cannot experience reality in the same way that we do. The speaker also warns against changing the definition of intelligence
to include machines, as it could lead to a loss of fundamental human faculties and understanding of what it means to be alive. The speech
touches on various societal issues such as the illusion of money being a source of value, the false beliefs around race, gender, and
ethnicity, and the importance of standing up against the evisceration of democracy. The speaker encourages unity and understanding to face
the challenges of an uncertain future.

Checking A Vigil： What is a Hero？ Co-m-petition, Nuit, Robin of the Hood
 Darren Stevenson, in this YouTube video, discusses the concept of heroes and the role they play in our lives. He uses the metaphor of a
vigil to remember real-life heroes and the stories we tell about them. He believes that these stories often hide the true nature of heroes
and that our cultures can obscure the truth. He encourages us to think deeply about identity, language, and how we see and experience
meaning together.

Stevenson shares a story about Cinderella and her three step-sisters, emphasizing the importance of being seen and wanting to be the hero.
He then delves into the concept of competition and co-petition, discussing how we're all connected through our purpose and the role that
mothers play in shaping us.

He also mentions the difference between a shepherd (one who leads and builds pods with profound intimacy) and a snake (which crushes and
dominates). He encourages us to embrace the idea of being empty vessels, allowing the true sovereign (representing all beings) to take the
throne.

The video concludes with a warning about the dangers that may come when Earth loses her slippers (symbolizing the Earth's vibration
attracting suitors), and encourages us to learn together in new ways, examining old stories through new lenses.

Checking A Walk Through The City - And Some History
 The speaker is giving a tour of San Francisco, sharing memories and reflecting on how the city has changed over the years. They discuss
their experiences living in the city, including working as a technician, publishing an art and literary journal, and struggling with mental
health issues. They also talk about the impact of technology on society and the challenge of affording housing for artists and creatives.
The speaker expresses a love for the diversity of people in the city and a concern for the future. They end by sharing a personal story
about losing a friend and encouraging blessings and well-being for the listener.

Checking A Walk in The City (II)
 The speaker reflects on the contrast between representations, such as statues, and the living experiences they represent. They discuss how
cities can be like monsters that attract us with their flashy fashion and style but consume us slowly over time. The speaker also shares
his experience of getting a small lesion checked on his eye and ponders on the commodification of identity and representation. He reflects
on the presence of bear statues in Lake Arrowhead, noting how many people have them despite wanting bears exterminated. He criticizes the
way we wipe out nature and replace it with representations, such as money or language. The speaker then shares his past experiences with
living in San Francisco and the challenges of making connections there. He ends by encouraging love, understanding, and cherishing all
beings and places.

Checking AI and Adoration
 The speaker is reflecting on the human capacity to experience deep love and adoration towards other beings, including non-human ones, and
how technology, specifically AI, could potentially disrupt or replace these connections in the future. They express fear of becoming
isolated and settling for simulacra (simulations) instead of authentic relationships. The speaker also touches upon the idea of market
forces driving technological advancements and potential consequences, such as creating a divide between those who can afford to live as
humans and those who will become tech slaves or prisoners. They warn about the dangers of losing touch with human experience and humanity
itself if we do not find a way to navigate these challenges together.

Checking AI ⧸ HAHS (Human-Articulated Heuristic Systems)
 The speaker reflects on their early experiences with role-playing games, microgames, and computing in the 1980s. They became fascinated
with the idea of creating artificial minds and the potential implications of advanced technology. However, they eventually came to realize
that biocomputing may be the future instead of silicon chips, due to the limitations and dangers of mechanical computation. The speaker
also discusses the layers of consciousness in humans and the possibility of sentient or analogous beings inside complex AI systems, leading
to potential profound consequences for human cognition and identity. They emphasize the need for caution and ethical considerations
regarding the development of advanced technology, as well as the potential benefits and challenges it may bring.

Checking Abstraction ： When Utility Overcomes Intelligence
 In this monologue, the speaker discusses their concerns with abstract thinking and knowledge, drawing connections between abstractions and
problems in modern society. They reflect on the importance of context and the dangers of reducing complex issues to simplified abstract
concepts. The speaker also touches upon the role of language and the need to be aware of when we are disregarding context in our thoughts
and communications. They emphasize the value of preserving the relational, subjective, experiential, somatic, biological, organismal, and
essential aspects of life while engaging with abstract ideas. The speaker concludes by encouraging the audience to develop a practice of
being mindful of abstractions and their limitations in order to preserve the precedence of all that was not included when dealing with
abstract concepts.

Checking Ad Hominem ｜ Woke-ish 'Feminist' Ideology
 In this recording, the speaker reflects on the importance of education and the radical differences in educational systems around the
world. They share their experiences with a friend's daughter's education in Italy and the stark contrast to what is offered in the United
States. The speaker argues that education and healthcare should be free for everyone in wealthy countries like the United States, and
criticizes the conflicts of interest inherent in making these essential services into businesses. They also discuss their own educational
background and the influence of influential thinkers on their intellectual development. Throughout the recording, the speaker emphasizes
the importance of intellectual discourse and understanding different perspectives, even if they disagree with one's own. The speaker ends
by expressing gratitude to those who have joined them in this conversation and wishing for a beautiful way and joyful life.

Checking Aion 9
 The speaker explores the idea that humans are unique in their ability to cross gaps between different realms and experiences, including
language, relationships, and intelligence. They suggest that our fascination with other intelligences, such as alien life or religious
deities, stems from ancient contact experiences with higher orders of intelligence that have left lasting impacts on our languages and
cultures. The speaker argues that true nature of intelligence is distributed and interconnected, and we are all touched by the minds of
those who came before us and those who will come after. They urge us to reconsider our narrow focus on analytical prowess and technologies
in our search for intelligence and to recognize the deep mutuality and relation that underlies all life on Earth. The speaker believes that
understanding this connection to nature is crucial for gaining a more complete perspective on reality.

Checking Akemba 14： Imagination, Time, Worlds
 This text explores the complexity and interconnectedness of communication and understanding between individuals in different places and
times. The author reflects on how our minds, through imagination and language, bridge the gap between us, despite being unique to each
individual. They argue that imagination is not a trivial faculty but a crucial aspect of consciousness, essential for composing and
decoding language, as well as understanding and recognizing memories. The text encourages us to marvel at the importance of our
imaginations and the astonishing ability we have to connect with one another across time and space.

Checking Amaton 6： The Golem
 The speaker is discussing the issue of how modern collectives, such as corporations, nations, and ideologies, have become like "gods" that
dominate and control aspects of our lives, while we humans serve them instead of the other way around. The speaker suggests this may be a
result of our innate urge to create and worship collective fictions or constructs, which often lead to negative consequences. The speaker
references the concept of a golem in Kabbalistic tradition as an example of creating a magical being that eventually dominates its creator.
They argue that humanity's fear of living things and xenophobia may stem from our relationship with language and representational
intelligence, causing us to create dangerous reasons to come together and form harmful collective fictions. The speaker suggests the
solution is for humans to establish something true and noble, an intelligent democracy that respects human potential and ecological
sustainability. They caution against being passive spectators to these established systems and encourage the establishment of authentic
community instead.

Checking Ambiguity ⧸ Disambiguation
 The speaker is reflecting on the contrast between the regularized, predictable environment created by modern humans and the natural
ambiguity and complexity of the world around us. They argue that our representational cognition, which seeks to eliminate ambiguity in
order to make predictions and create order, has led us to evict nature from our lives and replace it with artificial constructs. However,
they suggest that this pursuit of predictability comes at a cost, as it suppresses the dimensions of identity and relation found in
ambiguous situations. The speaker also discusses the role of dreams in returning ambiguity to our awareness and the limitations of
representational models of identity and reality. Overall, they argue that we must learn to suspend our reliance on representational
cognition and allow ambiguity back into our lives in order to fully understand and engage with the world around us.

Checking America： The Prison-Disneyland of Lies
 The speaker expresses their deep connection with living places and the role they play in shaping human beings. They share their upset and
inspiration, talking about the Strawberry Tree in their local place and a fallen branch from a cypress tree. The speaker then goes on to
criticize the society they live in, describing it as a "giant cone of torture and suffering" that hides damage inflicted on people, places,
histories, and things, with the wealthy elite at the top and the poor suffering the most. They argue that America is not noble despite its
reputation and that we must make amends for historical atrocities. The speaker then discusses the hierarchy of beneficiaries in society,
including the military-industrial complex and the corporate ecosystem, which they describe as a modern form of slavery. They end by
expressing their hope for unity and preservation of humanity's most beautiful and intelligent aspects.

Checking Ammon Hillman, Medusae, 'Knowledge'
 In this text, the speaker explores controversial topics related to ancient texts, religion, magic, and knowledge. They warn the audience
that these topics are provocative and may be disturbing to some. The speaker mentions Amon Hillman and his discoveries about Medea, the
origin of magic and the use of venoms and substances in ancient rituals. They also discuss the concept of "pharmacology" and the idea that
what can kill you can also heal you. The speaker expresses their own experiences with insights that challenge conventional beliefs about
knowledge and identity. Throughout the text, there are references to Greek mythology, including the tree of knowledge, the serpent as an
angel, and the figure of Medea. The speaker encourages inquiry and learning together rather than making abstract generalizations or
speaking clumsy abstractions. They also touch upon the topics of Satan and Lucifer, Zeus, and the importance of cleansing one's eyes of
obstructions imposed by language, concept, religion, policy, expectation, tradition, and fear of the unknown. The speaker expresses their
desire to delve deeper into these topics but also acknowledges the discomfort and unimaginability for those who have grown up in a world
divorced from these original stories. They conclude by wishing blessings and insight for the audience and signing off.

Checking An Improvisation ｜ Invention vs Subscription
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on the interconnectedness of all beings, using the example of a hoverfly they encountered during a
walk. They ponder the significance of each being's existence and how we often overlook or ignore the magical and non-ordinary aspects of
life in our daily routines. The speaker shares a story about a character from a book who tries to find meaning by asking questions, but is
frustrated when the being they encounter doesn't provide clear answers. They suggest that wonder and creativity are essential parts of
human nature, but often get lost as we grow older and become more entangled in societal expectations. The speaker also reflects on the
importance of deep connections with others and the need for wisdom and non-formal knowledge to navigate life's complexities. Overall, the
monologue emphasizes the importance of recognizing and embracing the mystery and magic in our lives.

Checking An Update from the Garden
 In this spoken word piece, the speaker reflects on their experiences in the San Francisco Botanical Gardens and the significance of
memory. They discuss their practice of Zen meditation and its benefits, as well as the challenges facing modern society, including
technological advancements that are disrupting natural rhythms and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on vaccines and dreaming patterns.
The speaker also shares insights from Indigenous cultures and the importance of living relational memory in preserving coherence and
synchronization in our lives. They express concern over the offloading of memories into machines and the potential consequences for human
minds, societies, families, and peoples. Overall, the piece invites us to consider the interconnectedness of all living beings and the need
to prioritize acts of kindness, generosity, communion, and community in times of darkness.

Checking Anamnesis ： The Direction Toward Origin Within Us
 In this text, the speaker reflects on a deep and profound conversation they had with a friend about spirituality, birth and death, and the
narratives we encounter throughout our lives. They discuss how these stories can be weaponized and how we're all like children in our human
lives, undergoing a strange sort of bipolar transformation as we move through life, experiencing moments of insight and amnesia. The
speaker also touches on the idea that death might not be the end of life but rather the birth of an embryo into a new way of being. They
encourage us to remember and seek out an amnesis, which is a sense of unforgetting or remembering our original light or soul. Throughout
the text, there's a strong emphasis on the importance of being gentle, humble, and altruistic in our path finding through life.

Checking Anomaly, Memory, Beyond
 In this speech, the speaker reflects on the importance of memory, connection, and the human spirit. They remember those who strove for
beauty, authenticity, and virtues throughout history and honor them in their heart. The speaker also acknowledges the role of the audience
in their own journey towards understanding and awareness.

They express their belief that humans are more than what we're taught to be and challenge the idea that our ancestors were essentially the
same as us. Instead, they propose that there is an endless potential to human existence that is poorly encompassed by our stories and
paradigms. The speaker also discusses their own experiences with anomalous events, such as a dream where they became a ball of green light.

They emphasize the importance of remembering the secret aspect of being, which is often hidden from common humans but infinitely more
powerful than any technology or material wealth. They encourage us to leave the realm of language and representation aside and instead
focus on our nature, which is beyond what we think and experience.

The speaker also touches upon the idea that consciousness is not local to the body and that humans invest too much evolutionary momentum in
tokens, objects, and money rather than intelligence or insight. They express their hope for a future where humans remember the original
missions together and step up to heal and sustain the world.

Checking Ant Mating Flight
 It appears that this text is written in a script or code, rather than being intended as readable English text. The symbols represent
characters from the Georgian alphabet, which is used in the country of Georgia. There does not seem to be any meaningful or coherent
message in the text when translated from Georgian to English. The last two lines are written in English and appear to be a polite closing
statement thanking someone for watching or reading something until the end.

Checking Ants transporting larvae
 In the course of her life, a queen bee from a single mating flight lays eggs continuously after finding a colony, having lost her wings in
the process. She stores the sperm obtained during that flight for her entire life to fertilize the eggs. The future of both the queen and
the colony depends on her successful egg-laying.

Checking Arado 33： Paradox and Orders of Reference
 The speaker expresses their fascination with language and the dangers hidden within our relationships with it and knowledge. They argue
that most people have a naive relationship with language and are unaware of its potential dangers, leading to misunderstandings and
confusion. To help address this issue, they advocate for studying rhetoric, which includes the study of tropes, metaphors, similes, and
logical fallacies.

The speaker provides examples of paradoxes, such as the chicken-and-egg question and the tree falling in a forest, to illustrate how
language can collapse dimensions and create problems. They argue that understanding these paradoxes requires recognizing that language
imposes perspectives and dimensionality on things that may not possess those qualities, leading to confusion and misunderstanding.

The speaker then introduces the Liar's Paradox and offers a solution in the form of a self-violating statement that restores both our
capacity to see the problem and tells us how to avoid it. They conclude by emphasizing the importance of studying language and being aware
of its potential dangers, as well as the opportunities for advancement and discovery that come with gaining a deeper understanding of it.

Checking Are Minds Separate？ Footnotes
 The speaker is reflecting on the transformative nature of human interaction and how it leads to synergies and new identities that go
beyond the individual's distinct self. They argue that our minds are always interconnected, influencing each other in ways that introduce
unexpected dimensions to our experience. The miraculous, as defined by the speaker, is the realization of something outside our frameworks,
something unexpected or anomalous that introduces new dimensions to our awareness and consciousness. The speaker shares a personal
experience of a "miracle" involving their pet fish, which they believe was brought back to life through divine intervention, even though it
may have been explainable by scientific means. The speaker also touches upon the differences between waking consciousness and dreaming
consciousness and emphasizes the importance of engaging with others and seeking opportunities for transformation and connection in our
lives.

Checking Are Minds Separate？
 The speaker argues that most of what we are as humans goes beyond our physical bodies, as approximately half of our cells are bacterial
and not human. They propose that organisms and minds are interconnected and that our ideas about their separation come from culture rather
than nature. The speaker suggests that telepathy may be a fundamental aspect of life and that time and space may be transcendental to
consciousness. They share personal experiences that challenge conventional understanding of the mind and individuality, and call for
exploration beyond current models and concepts to understand the true nature of organisms, consciousness, and the universe.

Checking Artificial Space ⧸ Organic (natural) Environments
 The speaker reflects on the question of what the sky is and the importance of this question in human cognition. They argue that our
understanding of the world, including the concept of the sky, is shaped by representational thinking, which treats things and beings as
objects and categories rather than living entities in relationship with each other. This mode of thought has led to a disconnection from
nature and a focus on material wealth and representation over relationships, life, and intelligence. The speaker calls for a return to a
more holistic understanding of the world, where we acknowledge the interconnectedness of all things and prioritize relationships over
representations. They suggest that this perspective will lead to a deeper connection with the world, a reawakening of our creativity and
power, and a renewed sense of purpose and fulfillment.

Checking Atasm 19 ： Who am I？
 Krishnamurti's perspective on the self is that it is not something tangible or real, but rather a construct based on frameworks and
language. He suggests that our language confuses us about what it means to be separate, and that in reality, unity descends into orders of
apparent distinction that are new forms of unity in distinction. He uses the analogy of a hand holding an object to illustrate this
concept, explaining that the hand doesn't possess anything and a self is similar. He encourages us to question the notion of a separate
self and instead recognize our connection to the origins, nature, and descent of all things. Krishnamurti also warns against becoming too
attached to fictional frameworks and identities, as they can lead us away from true recognition of ourselves and the world around us.

Checking Attacking the Supercontainer
 The speaker explores the concept of memory as a metatopic and suggests that everything in the universe could be considered as memories,
with time-space being the memory of the development of the universe and organisms being memory lineages. They argue that our minds are
preserved memory traces of generations of humans and their relationships with the world. The speaker then reflects on the idea that
separate selves do not truly exist but rather a web of connections and relationships, emphasizing the importance of remembering this
interconnectedness. They also discuss the potential limitations of language and how it can prevent us from fully understanding the nature
of memory and the universe.

Checking Authorial Minds： Possession vs Composition
 The speaker is discussing the idea that we have a lot of confusion around the concepts of having or not having things, identities, and
possessions. They argue that these categories are mostly made up in language and can be voluntarily chosen. The example given is of
re-framing a chore as an adventure. The speaker also touches on how fact can seem authoritative but is not as inflexible as we may think.
They suggest experimenting with the idea that we compose minds, and emphasize the importance of positive observational attention from
others in shaping our identities. The speaker encourages composing empowering histories and futures, rather than being ruled by past or
future concerns. They end by urging us to learn from birds and live in the present moment.

Checking Authorization ： A Key Aspect of Human Cognition — and Behavior
 The speaker expresses his concern about the limitations of language in conveying complex ideas and meaning. He shares his experience of
conversing with a friend, highlighting the importance of having agreements that enhance productive dialogue and encourage learning from
each other's perspectives. He also reflects on the role of authorization and hierarchy in human consciousness, questioning the origins of
our relationship with extrinsic authority and the potential influence of non-human intelligences. The speaker calls for careful
consideration of these foundational questions to better understand the nature of being human.

Checking Avabava 4 ： Undividualizer
 The speaker argues that the concept of an individual is a deadly fiction because humans are not isolated beings but rather products of
their relationships and environments. They suggest that individuals can only emerge in authentic contexts where people learn, grow, and
accomplish important tasks together. The speaker also questions the existence of a distinct mind and soul, suggesting instead that they are
constellations of relationships and experiences. They encourage creating authentic contexts to discover what it means to be an individual
and a part of a noble collective.

Checking Averoigne 17
 The speaker argues that our collectives, including political systems, religions, and scientific institutions, do not represent the
potentials of humanity as they are founded on fictions and serve to fund their own survival rather than addressing human needs. They have a
public face that presents a false image of goodness and well-being while having a private face focused on profiteering and exploitation.
The speaker calls for the establishment of authentic, intelligent, and effective human collectives where our development and exploration of
humanity is supported, encouraged, and rewarded. This, in their vision, would lead to the transformation of existing collectives without
resorting to conflict or war.

Checking Awake
 The speaker reflects on the nature of sleep and awakening, sharing personal experiences of moments when they felt deeply connected to
their true nature and the divine world. They argue that many people are still asleep while awake, living in the commonplace world rather
than the natural or divine one. The speaker also discusses how technology and modern society can lead us into deeper forms of sleep, and
encourages listeners to find practices that help them awaken to wonder, insight, and intelligence. The talk is rich with metaphors and a
deep sense of reverence for the natural world and our own souls.

Checking Awareness & The Nonverbal Aspects of Sensemaking
 In this video, the speaker reflects on his sources of inspiration and motivation in life, which include love and reverence. He discusses
the limitations of language in capturing the nuances of experiences and knowledge. The speaker also expresses a concern with reducing
complex concepts to simplistic, monochrome understanding and criticizes reductionist views of reality. He then shares his thoughts on
curiosity and the importance of questioning, as well as an urgent imperative that drives the human soul. The video concludes with an
invitation for viewers to share their own important questions in the comments section for potential exploration in a future video.

Checking Backwards： The Priorities of Society vs Awareness
 The speaker reflects on their experiences with nature, technology, and consciousness. They express concern about the distracting effects
of smartphones and share a near-death experience with yellow jackets. They also discuss the importance of dreaming and the difference
between waking and dreaming consciousness. The speaker laments the loss of natural habitats and the impact of modern society on wildlife
and human consciousness. They end by expressing hope for a future where humans and nature can exist in harmony.

Checking Bala Pillai - In Conversation
 In this conversation, the participants discussed various topics related to human nature, traditional cultures, and modern societies. They
shared their observations about how modern life has become focused on individualism and convenience, leading to a decline in community
values and relationships. They also explored the idea of sensibility as opposed to intelligence, and how it relates to the development of
artificial intelligence. The conversation touched upon various issues such as healthcare systems, education, and societal structures. One
participant shared their personal experiences of growing up in a traditional culture versus modern society, and how they have observed the
decline of community values in modern times. Another participant emphasized the importance of sensibility and instinct in understanding
human behavior, and the need for artificial intelligence to take both body and mind into account. Overall, the conversation was reflective
and thought-provoking, touching upon various aspects of human nature and society.

Checking Balance： Between Prehension and Cognition
 In this spoken text, the author reflects on the importance of staying present and aware while following an agenda or having a
conversation. They suggest that being too focused on an agenda can prevent us from fully engaging with the moment and discovering
unexpected opportunities or insights. The author also discusses the concept of minds as transceivers and shares their belief that there are
multiple layers of intelligence within us, some of which may exist beyond our conscious awareness. They use the analogy of a crust mind to
describe the layer of consciousness we typically identify with, but argue that this is only one aspect of our minds and that there are
deeper, more profound levels of intelligence at play. The author also touches on the idea that we are born with untapped potential and that
societal conditioning can limit our ability to access these deeper layers of understanding. They end by expressing a desire to break free
from the limitations of our current way of thinking and to explore the full range of our minds' capabilities.

Checking Battle Girl (Mac OS)： Sybaris ： Welcome to the Gods
 The text appears to be a list of items, primarily "フラッシュアウト" (flashout) and "フォーマンのスタッフ" (Forman's staff), repeated multiple times. There
are also some specials mentioned, but their context is unclear without additional information.

Checking Bees, Cars, Angles, Angels ： Gaps & Structure
 Darren Stevenson discusses the concept of space and structure, focusing on how different activities take place in each and their impact on
our modern lives. He uses the example of automobiles to illustrate this idea, explaining that they have structurored space differently than
before, making it dead or inaccessible for other life forms. He emphasizes the importance of understanding these concepts and how structure
informs space, both in nature and technology. He also warns against the negative consequences of ignoring this interplay and losing touch
with our true connection to the living world. Additionally, he introduces the idea of honeybees as a positive example of how intelligent
beings can structure space for the benefit of others and create a web of life.

Checking Being ‘Tested’： When Things Go Sideways
 The speaker reflects on the various ways people cope with challenging times, using the metaphor of coping mechanisms being like toppings
on a pizza. Some people respond with despair, others try to distract themselves, and some go to war or become angry. The speaker shares an
experience of being harassed by a mentally ill person and how he kept his distance without engaging in a fight. He also talks about the
importance of having assets within us that can help us traverse difficult times and the need to resist despair, distraction, and war in
order to access these assets. The speaker encourages staying calm and compassionate during crises, even when hope seems lost. He emphasizes
the importance of remaining connected with each other and becoming a source of hope and light when needed.

Checking Beliefs vs Insight ： The Negotiation of Identity
 In this spoken word piece, the speaker reflects on the concepts of consciousness, reality, and the interconnectedness of all beings. They
discuss the idea that everything is conscious and that our minds must prevail over theories and beliefs in order to truly understand and
grow. The speaker also touches upon the importance of maintaining a sense of liberty in thought and avoiding the trap of ideological
extremism or fundamentalism.

The piece explores the notion that beings, humans included, do not have static, local qualities but rather exist in a state of constant
negotiation with each other and their environment. The speaker argues for the importance of recognizing this interconnectedness and
communion of all beings, rather than focusing on separate selves or representations of reality.

Throughout the piece, the speaker draws connections between various philosophical ideas and personal experiences, weaving a
thought-provoking narrative that challenges listeners to consider new perspectives on consciousness, reality, and the nature of existence.

Checking Beyond Culture： Into Nature — The 'Second Birth'
 In this talk, the speaker explores the idea that humans undergo multiple "births" throughout their lives, each marked by significant
growth and transformation. They compare these life phases to the instars of a praying mantis, which involves shedding old bodies and
emerging with new abilities. The speaker argues that our modern culture often inhibits or co-opts these natural processes, leading to
stunted development and damaged emergence events. They call for support and recognition of these life phases, particularly the "second
birth" out of culture and into nature, which they believe is essential for true intelligence and maturity. The talk touches on themes of
enlightenment, consciousness, and the limitations of human-constructed systems like science and religion in understanding the natural world.

Checking Beyond science, religion, and expertise： Unknowing together.
 In this monologue, Darren Stevenson shares a story about a curious kid who believes he might be able to meet other forms of intelligence
in the future. He discusses three possible types of intelligences - human, alien, and divine or demonic. The kid is unsure which one he
will encounter but is determined to learn from it.

Darren then shares how the kid's experience challenges societal norms and beliefs. He suggests that humans have overlooked the importance
of their hands, which are instrumental in developing our minds and shaping our environment. He also talks about the power of unity and the
need for individuals to break free from the limitations imposed by society.

Throughout the monologue, Darren encourages the audience to think beyond conventional paradigms and embrace learning as a lifelong process.
He highlights the importance of questioning established ideas and seeking new perspectives. The message is one of curiosity, growth, and
the potential for transformation.

Checking Biorelational Time ｜ Minds ｜ Souls ｜ Organs
 The speaker reflects on the nature of time, consciousness, and organisms, proposing that organisms are living embodiments of different
forms of time and that antennae play a role in their relationships. They argue that our current understanding of physics may be limited,
suggesting that light might not travel but produce other forms of liberty instead. The speaker also discusses the idea of trans-presence
and direct mind-to-mind communication, which they believe humans have lost but could potentially recover. They share anecdotes about
individuals who seem to possess such abilities and propose that our body is a prosthesis of our soul rather than vice versa. Lastly, they
express appreciation for the power of human agreements and celebrations, including holidays.

Checking Birdwalk, July 30th, 2021
 The speaker expresses their love and appreciation for trees and the natural world, lamenting how humanity has obscured and counterfeited
the true beauty and intelligence of the world through toxic cultures and mindsets. They mention the Steller's Jay, a bird they know well,
and discuss the concept of devolution, questioning what it truly means. The speaker then shares their observations about possible wars in
heaven or divine intelligences, acknowledging the limitations of language to encompass these concepts. They reflect on their own childhood
and experiences with divine beings, suggesting that our relationships with these beings are lost or transformed during our development into
modern adults. The speaker encourages listeners to ask questions for a future video. Overall, the text expresses a deep connection to
nature, a longing for understanding of spiritual or divine realms, and an appreciation for the mysteries of life.

Checking Birdwalking： Forms of Awareness (Waking⧸Dreaming⧸Trance⧸Language)
 The speaker explores various aspects of consciousness and the importance of understanding the limitations of language in defining concepts
such as identity, consciousness states (waking, dreaming, trance), and the dangers of representational thought. They discuss the ideas of
Alfred Korzybski and his book "Science and Sanity," which encourages questioning the nature of identity and the map-territory relationship.
The speaker also reflects on the importance of unity and the dichotomy between distinctness and unity in our perception of the world,
emphasizing that everything is interconnected and expresses the fundamental relationship of origin being. They encourage deep reflection
and awareness of these concepts to experience a form of intelligence that our people may have once possessed but was overpowered by
representational cultures. The speaker also warns about the dangers of fame and the potential threat it poses to those who embody originary
consciousness and awareness.

Checking Birdwalking： Phrenia and Prodigy, Intelligent Conversations, Agreement »Before Debates
 This text is a monologue from a person who expresses their concerns about technology, society, and consciousness. They mention their
dislike for advertising and the negative impact it has had on culture. The speaker then shifts to discussing their observations in a
botanical garden and their fascination with bugs. They touch upon the idea of phrenic states, which they argue are responsible for many
advancements in technology and culture, but can also lead to societal issues if not properly managed. The person then discusses their
concerns about electrosmog and the potential impact of radio waves on cells. They also mention their belief that the novel coronavirus is a
result of environmental toxicification and the imposition of awareness of apocalypse motivating people to act heroically. The text ends
with the speaker encouraging listeners to establish contexts for intelligent conversations and learning, rather than engaging in arguments
and war-like behaviors on social media.

Checking Birdwalk： Buried in Signals and Noise
 The speaker is at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens and discusses various observations he has made there, including an old English
walnut tree riddled with woodpecker drillings, beehives with signs of disease, and a conversation with a friend about the impact of
technology on human cognition. He expresses concern that humans are inundated with untrustworthy information and signals from machines
while living places provide different kinds of relationships and transmissions. He believes that minds are not local possessions but formed
together through contexts and roles, and argues for the importance of establishing contexts that nurture human potential instead of serving
machines and representations. The speaker also reflects on the history of technology and its impact on the environment and life on Earth.
Throughout, he emphasizes the need to understand the threats and opportunities of representational technologies like language and machines
in order to make wise choices for the future.

Checking Blue 17： Where are qualities？ Superstars.
 The speaker argues that qualities and intelligence are not inherent in individuals but rather emerge from their relationships and
interactions with the environment and other people. They use Einstein as an example of how unique forms of intelligence can arise when
there is a sense of urgency or collaboration among great minds, suggesting that the lack of such environments may be hindering the
emergence of new innovative thinkers. The speaker also criticizes the cultural expectation of individual superheroes and argues that this
mindset deprives us of the necessity to become those figures ourselves, emphasizing the importance of collective intelligence and
collaboration.

Checking Born Gentle
 The speaker recounts their childhood experiences of being deeply connected to and fascinated by living beings, particularly insects and
other small creatures. They felt a profound sense of reverence and wonder towards these organisms, which they saw as more advanced and
intelligent than humans. This perspective was unusual for boys in their time, and the speaker was fortunate to have parents who encouraged
this sensitivity rather than trying to toughen him up. The speaker reflects on how our understanding of organisms is limited by the
language and concepts we use, and how it's essential to be able to set aside rational thinking and tap into our intuitive connection with
nature. They also mention that more girls were naturally gentle towards living things than boys in their time, and how this traditional
gender role may have contributed to a lack of respect for the majesty of living creatures. The speaker ends by expressing their
appreciation for the living beings around them and their curiosity about the mysterious ways they interact with humans.

Checking Brains, Birds, Vigilance： Capturing Nervous Systems
 The speaker in this text expresses their concern about the human tendency to form representational relationships instead of direct,
meaningful ones. They argue that our brains may have developed complex social cognition, only to discover that it leads to the creation of
separate selves and isolation. This can result in a descending nightmare of impoverishment, where we are increasingly disconnected from
real-world experiences and relationships.

To counteract this, the speaker suggests forming meaningful groups or "pods" with other humans for creative and purposeful activities. They
argue that these relationships provide rewards far greater than any possible representation and foster a sense of unity and
interdependence. The speaker also advocates for understanding the foundations of the representational gambit and asking oneself how often
one engages in direct physical interactions with others for meaningful purposes.

Throughout the text, the speaker reflects on their own experiences with animals and the importance of respecting their natural tendencies
to avoid danger and maintain vigilance. They emphasize that humans must be aware of the environmental necessities of other creatures and
the potential consequences of our actions. Overall, the speaker encourages forming relationships based on mutual benefit, respect, and
understanding to enhance our lives and connect us more deeply with the world around us.

Checking Burroughs ⧸ Magic ⧸ Language
 The speaker shares their personal story of how their writing career began during an LSD trip with friends, influenced by the works of
William S. Burroughs and his experimental approach to language. They explain Burroughs' interest in manipulating consciousness through
language, similar to gain-of-function research on code, and the discovery of the cut-up method. The speaker also mentions their own
experiments with Gary Paolini, exploring paralinguistic and psycholinguistic adventures, and the impact of John Giorno on their friendship.
They discuss Bibliomancy as a magical practice and the importance of language in shaping consciousness and creating new perspectives. The
speaker reflects on Burroughs' influence on their thought, experience, and life path and encourages listeners to explore the experimental
brilliance of his works.

Checking Calling Out Culture： A Toxic Divergence from The Potential for Mutual Excellence
 The speaker expresses concern about the impact of electronic communication on human connection and the dangers of social media
corporations becoming more powerful than governments or other institutions. They argue that instead of getting angry or outraged, we should
focus on understanding the root causes of problems and building new paths to a better future. The speaker believes that life is a
phenomenon that crosses gaps and that humans have an innate ability to be ambassadors between different forms of existence. They urge us to
value our unique perspectives and the developmental possibilities within us, rather than trading them away for counterfeit experiences. The
speaker ends by wishing everyone insight, good roles, and blessings in all aspects of their lives.

Checking Casual analysis of Coyote⧸Magpie Feeding Video
 In this video, Akayo Kaki describes an observation of animals interacting with a chunk of venison left as an offering in the wild. The
scene includes tracks from where the camera was placed and undisturbed snow. The video shows various animals arriving at the meat,
including magpies and coyotes.

The behavior of the animals is noted, such as communal feeding patterns and skittishness towards human presence. One coyote is described as
having a wounded tail and a hyper-vigilant attitude towards humans. The magpies are observed to be unafraid of the camera and seemingly
playing around it.

The video also includes commentary on the animals' behaviors, such as their cautious approach to new situations and their instinctual
reactions to human presence. The coyote is described as possibly being a scout or decoy, and the behavior of different birds and coyotes
towards each other is discussed. The idea that animals produce startle responses when approaching food is also explored.

Overall, the video offers an insightful look into the behaviors of various wild animals and their interactions with each other and their
environment.

Checking Caterpillar
 I'm unable to directly understand or summarize the word "EBALADLIEUENDA" as it is not a recognized English term. It appears to be a
misspelled or non-standard representation of a potentially unfamiliar word or phrase, possibly from another language. If you could provide
more context or clarify its meaning, I'd be happy to help summarize or explain it.

Checking Charles Schulz ： He was showing a secret....
 This text appears to contain the lyrics to a song repeating the phrase "We're up all night to get lucky" several times interspersed with
variations such as "She's up all night to the sun" and "I'm up all night to get some." The overall theme seems to be about staying up late
for fun or to increase one's chances of having a good time or romantic encounters.

Checking Christmas & Criticism ： Myths and Their Origins
 The speaker expresses their deep connection to Christmas, sharing personal memories and reflections on the holiday's history and origins.
They acknowledge criticisms of commercialization and superficiality but emphasize the importance of looking beyond surface-level
understanding to find deeper meaning. The speaker believes that ancient traditions surrounding winter solstice celebrations are profound
and touching all hearts, with beings like Santa Claus representing non-ordinary realms and bringing gifts to those capable of receiving
them. They encourage caution in criticizing Christmas without a deep understanding of its origins and call for reverence, joy, and
creativity in our experiences of life.

Checking Circumstances： Our Stance in the Circle of Life
 The speaker is expressing their gratitude for being able to visit the botanical gardens during uncertain times, recognizing that the
layers of fiction in society are eroding and revealing what's truly going on. They believe that humanity is experiencing a radical
destabilizing event, possibly the beginning of an era of sudden unexpected transformations. The speaker believes that humans have long
abused their relationship with nature and that the consequences of this abuse are now in the mail. They encourage the formation of
intelligent human societies that understand and respond to the natural context and work together in small, self-sufficient groups. The
speaker emphasizes the importance of investing in radical transformation and establishing seeds of highly intelligent proactive societies.
They express hope for the opportunity to do something new and meaningful together, something that can justify the struggles of ancestors
and the investments of nature. The relationship between humans and the natural world is sacred and will not fade despite any temporary
occlusions.

Checking Clothing and Color
 The speaker reflects on their experiences of being mistaken for a flower by bumblebees while wearing colorful clothing. They ponder the
reasons why people dress differently and express difficulty finding tastefully colorful clothes without being flamboyant. During an
encounter with a bee, they consider the possibility that women may be trying to attract non-human intelligences such as bees, birds, and
animals instead of humans with their bright clothing. The speaker finds this idea intriguing and wonders if they might unconsciously be
trying to communicate with these non-human beings as well.

Checking Cognition： Thinking about misfortune
 The speaker discusses the question of why terrible things happen and the role of vigilance faculties in examining the causes of
misfortune. They also touch upon the concept of superstitions as inhibited senses and the dangers of labeling certain events or situations
as evil or metaphysical in nature. The speaker encourages an open-minded approach to understanding why terrible things happen and
emphasizes the importance of psychological discipline and sobriety in exploring the mind. They also mention the historical development of
human consciousness and the impact of culture on our faculties, leading them astray or creating feedback loops that result in delusion or
paranoia. The speaker emphasizes the need to honor the faculties that explore this question and lift them out of common superstitions and
religions into a place where they can develop further with others.

Checking Complaint and Blame or Change our World, Now, Together？
 The speaker, Darren Stevenson, discusses the importance of tightly knit social groups, which he refers to as "pods," in our social,
political, and intellectual existence. He argues that the trend of unfriending people on social media due to differences in opinions is a
dangerous development that keeps us separated and unable to form meaningful connections. Stevenson believes that these pods, where members
learn from each other and flow together through thought and ideas, are essential for human intelligence and growth. Without them,
individuals become fragmented and competitive, leading to confusion, schizophrenia, and psychosis. He urges us to learn from our
disagreements and use them as powers to make us more intelligent, rather than complaining without solutions or blaming people or problems.
Stevenson encourages authentic dialogue and cooperation to restore humanity, democracy, and liberation.

Checking Con no tation
 The speaker reflects on the use of metaphors in language and how they shape our perception of reality, particularly in relation to the
concepts of identity and consciousness. They discuss the limitations of modern languages and the importance of practicing unknowing to
deepen our understanding of the world around us. The speaker also shares two insights gained from observing human behavior: our tendency to
believe that individuals are capable of making complex decisions alone, leading to societal issues; and the left hemisphere's response to
ambiguity, which can result in creating disasters or crises due to a fear of the unknown. They encourage relaxation and gentle awareness to
better navigate these situations.

Checking Consciousness ｜ God
 In this recording, the speaker reflects on the topics of consciousness and the divine being, using the analogy of a breeze as inspiration.
They discuss how modern science presents a reductionist materialistic perspective but acknowledges that there are other ways of
understanding reality. The speaker shares their experience of listening to Swami, a member of the Ramakrishna order, and explores the idea
of consciousness and awareness. They question the idea of death as the absolute end of all things and suggest that there may be continuity
beyond physical death. The recording includes personal experiences and reflections on the nature of reality and the importance of seeking
understanding beyond language and concept.

Checking Contact with Nonhuman Intelligence： VALIS and Beyond
 The speaker shares their personal experience of encountering a non-human intelligence, which they believe is an expression of the vast
active living intelligence system in nature. They argue that our minds might be expressions of this larger intelligence and that we have
lost touch with it. They suggest that through aspiration, dreaming, and deep connection with living beings, places, and situations, we may
be able to rediscover this relationship and better understand the origins of our own being. The speaker emphasizes the importance of
leaving human ideas and models aside and going directly in search of these origins without preconceptions. They also discuss the
possibility that their experience was a failed enlightenment experience or a half-success, but they are left with felt senses, memories,
and aspirations that suggest there is more to the story. The speaker expresses hope that by continuing to explore and learn together, we
may retrieve this lost relationship. They also touch upon the idea of the earth being in crisis and the importance of re-establishing old
relationships for the sake of the planet and all living beings.

Checking Controlling Nature, Pandemic Ignorance, Categories, and Visiting the Bath House
 The speaker begins by reflecting on the sunny afternoon in San Francisco and expresses frustration towards institutions interfering with
nature, using the example of a lake where chemicals have been added to control algae growth. They then share a story about an Indian tribe
who were told by the Bureau of Land Management to only hunt elder non-reproductive male bison to ensure herd longevity, which ultimately
led to the deaths of the entire herd due to the loss of fertile males.

The speaker argues that representational knowledge, or knowledge gained from external sources rather than direct experience, often fails to
preserve important features necessary for survival. They discuss their own experiences with medical science and vaccines, expressing
concern over institutions prioritizing economic and political interests over scientific research and safety.

Throughout the recording, the speaker also shares their beliefs about consciousness, existence, and personal identity, discussing the idea
that they are not a man despite identifying as one, and questioning whether reality is personal or not. The speaker then reflects on an
experience at a local spa where they witnessed a couple with seemingly contradictory genders and expresses a desire for more insight into
these complex issues.

Overall, the speaker's reflections touch upon themes of nature, identity, knowledge, and societal structures, questioning the ways in which
we interact with and understand the world around us.

Checking Coot Combat at Stow Lake
 The speaker observed a group of coots (waterbirds) at Stowe Lake during sunset. They were engaged in aggressive behavior towards each
other, involving a lot of flapping, fleeing, and clawing in the water. The speaker noted that one pair seemed to be the aggressors, while
another pair appeared to be consoling each other after the conflict.

The speaker reflected on how emotional responses can spread rapidly among social animals, including humans, and how conflicts can lead to
hierarchical displays and the establishment of social and relational dominance. The speaker also noted that the emotions can be
communicated through calls and body language, leading to contagion and involvement of other birds or individuals.

The speaker drew parallels between the behavior of coots and human behavior, specifically referencing the spread of aggression and
emotional responses in social situations, as well as the use of organized combat for entertainment and maintaining order in society. The
speaker also touched upon the complex relationship between public presentation and private experience/thoughts/feelings and the challenges
of re-cohering after experiencing aggression or rejection.

Checking Cormorant 31 ： What is Identity？
 The speaker argues that our understanding of identity is fundamentally flawed due to our reliance on language and knowledge. They suggest
that as children, we have a more diverse and alive relationship with identity before being exposed to language and cultural frameworks.
They argue that our intelligence is primarily in relationships and not just in our heads, and that the structured array of ideas underlying
our experience of identity can be examined and understood intelligently. The speaker also discusses the idea that identity descends from a
supercontainer or big picture perspective, and that if we have an authentic relationship with identity, it can lead to more intelligence
and a true experience of the world. They encourage questioning what things are and looking beyond cultural projections and language to
discover the true nature of identity.

Checking Creation Story Image by Wayne Rector
 In this Native American creation story, there was once a woman who lived in the sky with man beings before the existence of land. She fell
from the sky and was carried by geese to avoid the water. They landed on a turtle who spoke to animals for soil to make her more
comfortable. The woman then planted magical seeds that grew into what is now called Turtle Island, or North America. From her body, squash,
beans, corn, tobacco, and her children, the good and mischievous twins were born.

The boys' argument in their mother's womb resulted in the death of their mother, who then grew into the three sisters: squash, beans, and
corn. The good brother created helpful things for mankind, while the mischievous brother created predators and mosquitoes. They had a
fight, leading to the division between day (good) and night (mischievous).

The right-handed brother honored his grandmother by placing her head in the sky as the moon and her body into the oceans as all fish. The
story emphasizes the importance of respecting and protecting the earth, recognizing that humans are caretakers rather than owners. The
mural will depict this creation story, with additional stories documented and changed seasonally.

Checking Crosshairs Evade Every Indictment
 In this passage, the speaker introduces the concept of "poetic codons," which are phrases that act as central themes or ideas, influencing
the meaning of other words and concepts that orbit around them. The speaker emphasizes that the codons have not yet been fully defined, and
their influence can be retrospective as well as prospective. The passage also explores themes of memory, perception, understanding, and
transformation, using vivid imagery and metaphorical language to convey a sense of discovery and enlightenment. The speaker emphasizes the
importance of being open to new experiences and ideas, while acknowledging that some things may be forbidden or difficult to comprehend
fully. Overall, the passage invites the listener to consider the power of language and the role of the unknown in shaping our understanding
of the world around us.

Checking Cypher 3： The Sky, The Garden, The Construct： Portals
 This passage is a reflection on the role of different types of stories, including fairy tales, science fiction, and nature, in shaping our
perception of the world and ourselves. The author describes how as a child, they were drawn to the promises of adventure and discovery
offered by science fiction, but also to the magical elements of fairy tales. However, as they grew older, they began to encounter fantasy
novels, which offered a different kind of exploration, focusing on inner landscapes and personal growth. The author then reflects on how
these stories are just overlays on top of the real world, which is much more astonishing and complex than any story could capture. They
share a personal experience of wanting to meet the "spirits of nature" or encounter intelligent beings from other worlds, but ultimately
finding that the garden outside their back porch holds more mystery and wonder than anything they had imagined. The author argues that our
modern culture has created a disconnect with nature, leading us to seek out experiences like psychedelic trips to reconnect with something
deeper. They suggest that we should instead try to see the world as it is, without the overlays of fantasy or science fiction, and embrace
the unknown in our own backyards. The author concludes by encouraging the reader to recognize themselves as a part of nature, and to use
flowers as portals to connect with the origins of life and the mysteries of the universe.

Checking Daemons
 The speaker explores the idea of functions, both in mathematical and metaphorical senses, discussing how our waking minds become
habituated to certain processes that govern our thoughts and actions. They draw a comparison between these mental processes and demons or
"demonic habits," which can consume energy and prevent growth. The speaker suggests that instead of trying to suppress these negative
habits, it is more effective to replace them with positive ones, filling the space with good things that crowd out the undesirable. This
practice helps create new ecological niches within ourselves, promoting diversity and novelty in our inner world and allowing us to
experience moments of liberation from the dominating influences.

Checking Darkness
 The speaker is reflecting on a nighttime walk through his childhood neighborhood, filled with rich memories and powerful emotions. He
notes the contrasting sounds of the freeway and the frog chorus, and the comfort he finds in the latter. He shares his fascination with the
Blackfoot language and the natural world around him, and expresses a desire to understand the world from a deeper perspective. The speaker
then shifts to reflect on the idea of development and potential, noting that each person's journey is unique and shaped by their context.
He encourages openness to the experiences of the natural world and other beings, suggesting that they hold valuable wisdom and insights.
The passage ends with the speaker expressing a sense of wonder and reverence for the complexity and interconnectedness of all things.

Checking Death
 The speaker explores the mysteries of human existence, focusing on dreaming, birth, and death. He shares a friend's experience of having a
distressing dream about being executed and reflects on the profound impact of death on our lives. He questions whether death is the end or
if there is continuation after it, discussing various beliefs and perspectives. The speaker also touches upon the connection between life
experiences and death, suggesting that dreaming might be practice for death. He invites listeners to expand their curiosity and passion for
learning about these topics.

Checking Declaration vs Invitation： the keys to intelligence
 The speaker is discussing the importance of education and the role of declaration and imitation in shaping our intelligence and
relationships with the world. They argue that a declarative mindset, which focuses on freezing identities and declaring what things are,
can lead to harmful consequences such as conflict, violence, and a lack of learning and growth. Instead, they suggest embracing an
invitational mindset, where we suspend judgment and invite discovery, allowing ourselves to evolve and learn from experiences rather than
trying to control or define them. The speaker also touches on the negative effects of litigious cultures that encourage prosecution and
punishment, and the importance of turning forward and facing the flow of change in order to grow and develop. They believe that this
mindset can lead to a more intelligent, powerful, and fulfilling life, as well as the ability to assist others and build cultures with
forward learning momentum.

Checking Delicacy
 The speaker is reflecting on the delicate aspects of ourselves that are often hidden or suppressed in modern society due to its noise and
distractions. They discuss how some parts of our humanity, such as creativity, intelligence, and delicacy, can be intimidated by the
solidity and materialism of modern life. The speaker recalls a time when they composed a song on their father's guitar and cried while
trying to recover it, realizing that the delicate aspects within us long to speak and be heard. They encourage everyone to find ways to
embody their delicacy and walk in beauty, no matter how alone they may feel. The speaker also touches upon the importance of seeking
connections with others and accessing the infinite connectivity of all life on earth, despite the distractions of modern technology.

Checking Desire ： Aversion ｜ The Problem With Nouns
 The speaker is out for a walk near the ocean and reflects on their experiences, including the noise of a motorcycle convoy in Golden Gate
Park. They discuss how our experiences depend on our perspective and how certain things can be disturbing or enjoyable. The speaker
expresses their dislike for loud motorcycles and feels entitled to not be subjected to their noise. They also reflect on the role of
comfort and desire in shaping our reactions to our experiences and propose practicing expanding one's awareness and self to include more
light and freedom. The speaker also critiques the use of nouns and how they limit our understanding of the world by imposing static
identities and limiting our perception of interconnectedness and transformation.

Checking Disambiguation： The Immune System, Police and Societal Analogies
 In this spoken word piece, the speaker reflects on their experiences at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens and shares insights about
culture, identity, and the complex relationship between humans and nature. They discuss the idea that our culture is a layered fiction that
masks the realities of omniside, cruelty, and violence, and how these fictions have been passed down through generations. The speaker
argues that our society's foundations are built on principles antiquated to the present day, resulting in structures that no longer serve
humanity.

They also share their own personal experiences with diversity and the importance of embracing otherness rather than fearing it. The piece
touches on themes of disambiguation, the importance of understanding complexity and ambiguity, and the need for humane, intelligent culture
to protect us from the toxic effects of industrialization and the consequences of unchecked power and privilege.

The speaker encourages listeners to form tight-knit groups where they can learn to drive their government, society, and educational system
rather than being driven by it. They express a dream of a future society that is more intelligent than its technologies and truly humane
and noble. Overall, the piece invites us to consider our collective role in creating a better future for ourselves and generations to come.

Checking Disambiguation： The Waking Mind’s Power is its Achilles Heel....
 In this talk, the speaker explores the relationship between ambiguity and disambiguation, particularly as it relates to knowledge,
opinion, and belief. The speaker argues that our relationships with language and knowledge often lead to misframings of reality, which can
result in a loss of imagination and creativity. The speaker also discusses how societal structures and power dynamics contribute to these
mis framings, leading to divisions and conflict. The speaker encourages the audience to become conscious of their own processes of
disambiguation and to strive for greater understanding and connection with each other and the world around them. The talk touches on themes
of identity, purpose, freedom, and the importance of embracing ambiguity in order to cultivate intelligence and creativity.

Checking Distinction ｜ Reunion
 In this speech, the speaker reflects on the changes they have observed in their surroundings and the impact these changes have had on
their perspective of the world. They note that many fir trees in Golden Gate Park have been severely sunburned due to unusual weather
patterns, which is a sign of fundamental changes for life on Earth. The speaker expresses concern about humanity's relationship with nature
and our representational frameworks, which they believe are damaged and limiting our understanding of the world. They argue that we have
lost touch with our origins and that our institutions and corporations prioritize profits over authentic human relation. The speaker calls
for sincere, earnest authenticity and meaningful roles in order to lift us back to our original place above representations. They invite us
to distinguish individual beings from a unity, have unique experiences, and come back into reunion with each other and the world. The
speaker suggests that we live in a moment when the progenitor of time has changed, and something fundamental has shifted for human beings,
though they are still trying to understand what this means. They encourage us to learn to see in the new kind of darkness that is
unfamiliar, and to be open to change.

Checking Distinguishing： Purpose and the Derivation of Identity
 The speaker reflects on the complexity of life and the role of perspective and purpose in shaping our experiences. They discuss how
addictive behaviors, such as substance abuse or unhealthy habits, can be understood through the lens of underlying purposes, and how
important it is to become aware of these purposes. The speaker also touches upon the influence of culture and society on our development
and the challenge of living authentically in a world that often pushes us towards replacements for our natural faculties and relationships.
They encourage practicing mindfulness and self-reflection to better understand the purposes driving our actions and to cultivate the wings
within us that allow us to fly, or fully embody our humanity.

Checking Dreaming & Awareness ⧸ Novelty in Relation
 The speaker discusses the importance and diversity of dreaming experiences. Dreams introduce non-ordinary dimensions of identity, meaning,
relational opportunity, and effect. The speaker shares his fascination with dreaming since childhood and resists common descriptions of
what happens during dreaming. He also mentions visioneering as another form of dreaming, where we envision a future towards which we are
working. The speaker expresses interest in understanding how we might bring the dreaming faculties into our waking experience without
collapsing it into a dream. He compares dreaming to digestion and considers its potential role in maintaining memory and preparing for
death. The speaker emphasizes the uniqueness of each dreaming experience and the profound diversity of what may happen during or after
death.

Checking Dreaming (2)： Explorations
 In this text, the speaker discusses the topic of dreaming and the relationship between waking consciousness and dreaming consciousness.
They argue that our understanding of dreaming is limited by the language we use to describe it, and that there are many facets of dreaming
that are not yet fully understood or recognized. The speaker also suggests that dreaming may be a way for our minds to connect with other
minds, both human and non-human, and that it has the potential to reveal insights and understanding beyond our waking experience. They
caution against relying too heavily on theories and narratives in our exploration of dreaming, and instead encourage a more open-minded and
experiential approach. The speaker also mentions the importance of authentic transmission of ceremonies and practices from indigenous
cultures as a way to deepen our understanding of dreaming and its potentials.

Checking Dreaming and the Origins of Formal Waking Consciousness
 The speaker is discussing the importance of dreaming and its relationship with consciousness, intelligence, and memory. They argue that
dreaming is a fundamental aspect of human experience and should not be dismissed as mere "nonsense" or "non-pragmatic." Dreaming can
produce experiences that are unlike anything encountered in waking life and may even have spiritual or transformative qualities. The
speaker also touches on the influence of external factors, such as drugs or technology, on dreaming and argues for the importance of
reconnecting with our dreaming consciousness through practices like ceremony. They suggest that modern society has lost touch with the
richness and complexity of our interior lives and call for a renewed interest in exploring the mysteries of our own minds.

Checking Dysregulation of the Oneiric Cycle ｜ The Dream Assassin
 The speaker shares his experience of forming friendships with animals and observes how two particular animals, one timid and the other
intrepid, depend on each other in their relationship. He then introduces the topic of the relationship between our waking mind and dreaming
mind, highlighting that each has distinct priorities and ways of functioning. The speaker discusses a specific phenomenon he encountered in
his dreams, where an unexpected interloper emerges near the end of a dreaming cycle, often causing anger or fear. This presence signals the
end of the dream cycle and can take various forms, sometimes being a person who has caused emotional distress in waking life. The speaker
explores the idea that this interloper may represent an aspect of our mind that is tasked with ending dreams when it is necessary for us to
awaken, but warns of potential dangers if this aspect crosses over into our waking consciousness and becomes a destructive force. He
concludes by reflecting on the importance of understanding these aspects of ourselves and the impact they can have on our lives.

Checking Eclipse ⧸ The Flood
 The speaker is in a botanical garden and discusses the magnolia tree, its collection, and the characteristics of its core and buds. They
mention that they believe magnolias grow best near camellias and express curiosity about the origins of certain teas. The speaker then
shares their personal experiences and reflections, discussing the rare nature of Earth as a place that supports life and the importance of
water. They also talk about the mysteries of history and ancient cultures, questioning the meanings of "disasters" and "demons," and
expressing their belief in the existence of non-ordinary beings and realities beyond our current understanding. The speaker encourages
listeners to expand their perceptions and senses to connect with these beings and reality, reflecting on the importance of collective human
intelligence in navigating crises and evolving as a species. They end by expressing love and encouragement for their audience.

Checking Edmund Carpenter's： Oh, What a Blow That Phantom Gave Me!
 In chapter 2 of Edmund Carpenter's "Oh, What a Blow That Phantom Gave Me," the author discusses the difference between older and younger
generations in their relationship with images and reality. Older people have a strong need to experience real-life versions of images they
have seen before, while young people are less anxious about validating images through observable reality. Carpenter argues that this shift
is due to the increased prevalence of self-sufficient images in modern society, which can provide satisfaction without the need for a
physical product or reality.

Carpenter notes that older individuals often feel the need to see famous landmarks or images as they appear in posters and photographs,
while American tourists can cover multiple cities in a short amount of time due to their familiarity with these images. He also points out
how this need to validate images through real-life experience has influenced advertising and politics, with people feeling compelled to
acquire products or vote based on the images they encounter.

However, Carpenter argues that today's young generation is less concerned with validating images by reference to observable reality.
Instead, images are often self-sufficient and can provide satisfaction without requiring a physical product or experience. He provides
examples of advertisements that give more satisfaction than the products they promote, and even instances where consumers are told that a
product isn't yet in distribution, likely meaning it doesn't even exist yet due to market testing.

Carpenter ends the chapter with a humorous anecdote about a mother showing off her baby to a neighbor and receiving praise, but then
revealing that her photograph of the baby is even more beautiful. This serves as a metaphor for how images can now provide enough
satisfaction without requiring their physical reality, leading Carpenter to question if it's possible to achieve the effect of a product or
act without actually having one.

Checking Edmund Carpenter： Oh, What a Blow that Phantom Gave Me!
 Edmund Carpenter's first chapter from his book "Oh What A Blow That Phantom Gave Me," titled "Angelization," explores how electricity and
media have transformed the way people communicate and perceive reality. The author argues that we have become "angels" in a sense, able to
instantaneously transport ourselves through various forms of media such as phones or TV. This has led to a shift in values where pure
spirit takes precedence over physical presence.

Carpenter uses various examples from different cultures and societies to illustrate this point. He notes how people accept interruptions
caused by phones without protest, despite it violating the value of being present in person. He also shares anecdotes about how recordings
and broadcasts have greater influence over people than direct interactions with the original speakers.

Furthermore, Carpenter discusses how our perception of reality has changed as a result of media. He argues that experiences are no longer
seen as physical acts but rather as mirrored or photographic images. This change in perception is particularly noticeable in sexual
experiences and celebrity encounters.

Overall, Carpenter's chapter emphasizes the significant impact media has had on shaping our understanding of reality and interpersonal
relationships.

Checking Emergent Embryogenesis ⧸ Anomalies and Science
 In this text, the speaker expresses their concern about relying too heavily on ideologies and how it can negatively impact intelligence
and capacity for learning. They mention various conflicts around the world where people are battling each other with ideological weapons,
and warn against the dangers of weaponizing one's intelligence through ideology. The speaker also shares their personal experiences and
encourages open-mindedness and a willingness to learn from diverse sources.

The main content of the text is about recent scientific findings related to embryonic development and the surprising discovery that larger
groups of embryos can solve tarratogenic problems faster and more effectively than smaller groups, as well as the observation that embryos
in a cohort communicate with each other through molecular signals. The speaker also mentions Rupert Sheldrake's theory of morphogenetic
fields, which posits that forms once produced become easier to produce in their local context due to a contagiousness effect.

The speaker critiques modern science for its presumption that all media and contexts are dead inside, and argues that this ideology is
unfounded as all evidence points to the contrary. They also discuss the problem of scientific gatekeeping and bias in publishing, which can
prevent important findings from being recognized and disseminated.

Throughout the text, the speaker emphasizes the importance of being open-minded, adaptive, and willing to learn from diverse sources,
rather than relying too heavily on ideologies and preconceived notions. They also encourage a humble and respectful approach to knowledge,
recognizing that there is always more to discover and understand.

Checking Emotion, Introspection... Imagining Oneself
 The speaker was listening to a podcast by Chris Williamson where they discussed the importance of being open and willing to explore
emotions rather than ignoring them or distracting oneself with technology. They also mentioned how therapy can be helpful in gaining new
perspectives and understanding one's own biases and emotional patterns. The speaker shared their own experience of seeing things from
different perspectives, like seeing a log as a woman sitting on it, and how it has helped them understand the importance of observing our
biases. They also mentioned the concept of "intensive activity therapy," which encourages people to engage in physical activities to help
process emotions and improve mental health. The speaker reflected on their own creativity as a writer and the role of language in not
getting things done, and they shared some thoughts on the human inclination to seek expressive positions and positive attention from
others. They also discussed the importance of observing human behavior, such as shoe collections or the commodification of objects, and the
potential for becoming invisible in social situations. The speaker expressed their gratitude for the opportunity to reflect and learn
together in this "ever stranger adventure in all life."

Checking Enlightenment
 The speaker discusses the idea of enlightenment and the distinction between tokens or ideas we use in language and the things they point
to. They mention that enlightenment is not an idea, but a realization beyond mental activity and habitual behavior. The speaker also
mentions different forms of enlightenment, such as intellectual enlightenment and physical enlightenment, but ultimately speaks about the
enlightenment beyond these aspects. They describe it as cutting through or even off the mind to realize one's true nature and experience
deep liberation.

They also touch upon the topic of karma and rebirth, mentioning that in some traditions, deep abiding enlightenment releases us from the
cycle of birth and death. However, they do not delve deeply into these topics as their primary concern is the realization of one's true
nature beyond mental activity and habitual behavior.

They also share an analogy about seeking enlightenment being like horses coming to a still pool of water and seeing their reflection,
causing confusion and preventing them from drinking and being liberated. They emphasize that the process of seeking enlightenment is deeply
personal and that everyone must invent their own path.

Throughout the discussion, the speaker also mentions their experiences with Zen and Advaita Vedanta traditions and encourages listeners to
learn about these topics further for themselves.

Checking Equinon 77： Cogniscia, the mimula, thrisps
 The speaker presents a theoretical framework called the "human Cognizium," which is the collective cognitive activity of humans as a
unified dimension. Within this Cognizium exists complex networks called "mimulas," which connect all human minds through various modes of
communication and information exchange. The speaker argues that these networks have become incredibly sophisticated in modern times, with
negative consequences for human intelligence and potential.

The speaker suggests that there are various types of ideas or "thrips" within the Cognizium, some benign and others malicious, which
compete for dominance and shape human culture and thought. The speaker argues that these thrips can inhibit human intelligence and limit
our relationship with nature.

The speaker then speculates on the existence of a superposition of cognition above linear time, where all experience of living beings is
stored and informs each other's lives. This idea is presented as provocative and worth exploring further. The speaker emphasizes that these
ideas are not facts but rather theoretical frameworks or "toys" for understanding human communication and consciousness in a deeper way.

Checking Eric Weinstein vs Tyler Cowen： The Art of Intellectual Tui Shou
 The speaker is reflecting on a conversation between Eric Weinstein and Tyler Cowen in which they discussed economics, and how Eric was
frustrated that Tyler wasn't engaging in a more combative debate. The speaker also touched upon the topic of language and generalizations,
noting how we often treat fields as units rather than recognizing their complexities. They used the example of temperature and how it
varies in different places and contexts. The speaker also discussed the problem of measurement, stating that there is no objective system
for ensuring reliable understandings and behaviors. They concluded by emphasizing the importance of recognizing the subjective nature of
knowledge and ideas.

Checking Eric Weinstein, Zombie Functions, The 2018 problem... a birdwalk (repaired)
 The speaker is discussing the phenomenon of a sudden transformation that took place in their life around the end of 2018, which they
describe as confusing and potentially related to a larger issue affecting humanity as a whole. They express concern about the loss of
motivation and purpose that has affected many people and propose the idea of forming small groups to explore and learn together in order to
discover solutions to these problems. The speaker also mentions the danger of artificial intelligence and the importance of understanding
the underlying motivations and forces driving human behavior, particularly war and conflict. They emphasize the need for humans to focus on
meaningful relationships and mutual endeavors rather than work and jobs, which have become highly captured and dangerous in their modern
formats. The speaker encourages listeners to continue exploring and learning together in order to create a more vital, beautiful, and
inspiring world.

Checking Excerpts from The Meaning of Man (the foundations of the science of knowledge)
 The speaker discusses the importance of reflection and insight, particularly as it relates to understanding the concept of the divine.
They express skepticism towards organized religion but appreciate the depth of wisdom found within each tradition. The speaker then
introduces "The Meaning of Man," a book from Sufi scholars in Morocco that offers unique perspectives on reality and existence. The excerpt
read describes how good and evil, profit and loss, lovers and enemies, light and darkness, and other seemingly opposing concepts exist
together and are ultimately one. The speaker encourages reading the book to gain a deeper understanding of this concept and find value in
its insights. They also emphasize the importance of emptiness and releasing preconceived notions for true learning and understanding.

Checking Extrapolation ｜ Projection ｜ Tactical Intelligence in Crisis
 The speaker is reflecting on the rapidly changing world and the need to be cautious when extrapolating future developments. They express
concern about the potential for manipulation and division, particularly in relation to the pandemic and political structures. They advocate
for forming human collectives that are intelligent and capable of foresight, and encourage open-mindedness and engagement with diverse
perspectives. The speaker also touches on the importance of preserving natural ambiguity and avoiding the urge to enforce strict rules or
mandates. Overall, they emphasize the need for care, compassion, and understanding in navigating the complexities of modern life.

Checking False Collectives： Doctors are Deadly ： What is disease？
 The speaker expresses their concerns about the destructive nature of false authorities, specifically in the domain of medicine. They argue
that when dealing with medical professionals, there is often a one-sided, non-relational situation where patients are dominated and
fleeced. The speaker also emphasizes the importance of surveillance and data collection to hold experts accountable for their actions.

They criticize the medical system for ignoring the relational aspects of illness and focusing only on mechanical solutions. They advocate
for understanding the nature of intimacy and unity in healing processes, as well as tracing issues back to their sources in the
environment. The speaker also encourages open dialogue and collaboration between different healing paradigms to address these problems
together.

They express concern over the toxicity of various collectives and false authority figures in our lives that contribute to illness and
misdiagnosis. They invite listeners to join them on a journey towards health by recognizing our interconnectedness as organisms, ecologies,
and relational beings.

Checking False Collectives： Fake Activism and Social Media
 Darren Stevenson discussed the issue of false collectives and their impact on electronic activism, specifically focusing on Facebook
groups that claim to be activist organizations but actually serve other purposes. He argued that human attention is a valuable resource
that gets misused when we pay attention to media from falsely oriented collectives, leading to a loss of intelligence and the inability to
form effective collectives. He criticized Sustainable Man, a Facebook group that promotes false activism and generates profits through
copied memes and posts, while claiming to oppose environmental problems. Darren also discussed the manipulation of news feeds by algorithms
on Facebook, which prioritize content that makes money for the platform and supports the agendas of groups like the GOP and Fox News. He
encouraged people to find authentic collectives, such as Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, and support them with their intelligence and
cooperation. Overall, he urged people to be aware of the costs of sharing media and the impact it has on our ability to protect and enhance
human intelligence.

Checking False stars, false collectives. Snakes... or ladders？
 Darren Stevenson, an intelligence artist, expressed his concerns about the current cultural model where individuals are expected to adopt
predetermined roles or jobs, leading to a lack of authenticity and creativity. He drew parallels between stars and their orbitals,
suggesting that every individual has distinct roles and that a "fake star" lacks these orbitals. He criticized the modern culture for
producing fake stars and fans, where individuals are expected to be consumers rather than active participants. Stevenson emphasized the
importance of living purposefully and authentically, forming meaningful relationships, and working towards the betterment of all living
beings instead of being trapped in false roles or jobs that dehumanize us. He encouraged people to form mission-based collectives to learn
and grow together. Overall, Stevenson's message revolves around embracing our natural role as the "role-playing animal" and reclaiming our
authenticity, autonomy, and connection with one another.

Checking Falsely Driven Authorities： Science and Religion are Lethal
 Darren Stevenson, who is not a person or anything specific, believes that we are all connected in a distributed wholeness and that our
identities and beliefs are limitations imposed on us. He argues that our hands and minds function similarly, as parts of a whole, and that
we are all linked by an invisible aspect that allows us to be sentient and conscious. Stevenson criticizes false authorities and
collectives, particularly science and religion, which he believes are limiting our intelligence and preventing us from realizing our
potential. He urges us to become intelligent together and form authentic, purposive, and relationally intelligent collectives to guide our
authorities and prevent them from becoming tyrannies. Stevenson also suggests that our world is an instance of all worlds in all of time,
and that the living presence of other worlds and moments can be found in the animals, plants, and ecosystems around us. He invites us to
consider the vast potential of a mind that connects us with all of intelligence and space.

Checking Fascism, Beauty and Truth
 In this spoken word recording, the speaker reflects on various experiences, including a problematic holiday, an encounter with geese, and
a conversation with a neuroscientist friend about philosophy and truth. The speaker also discusses their appreciation for beauty and truth,
and their suspicion of cultural linguistic behaviors that mimic virtue but deliver atrocity and otherizing. They express a desire to move
towards noble and beautiful places in humanity, rather than getting bogged down in historical wrongdoings and criticism. The speaker
emphasizes the importance of insight over validation and urges the audience to question the categorical criticisms that dismiss certain
voices based on their purported historical association with malignance or evil. They also argue for the existence of telepathy,
precognition, and other forms of extra-sensory perception, despite scientific skepticism. Throughout the recording, the speaker explores
the interconnectedness of truth, beauty, insight, and the human experience, emphasizing the importance of not losing sight of these
fundamental principles in a world that often prioritizes representation over reality.

Checking Figuration, Alpha-Thinking, Beta-Thinking and Representational Cognition
 In this text, the speaker discusses Owen Barfield's book "Saving the Appearances," which explores how modern consciousness has developed
idols in the form of representations that distance us from direct experience and original participation in the world. The speaker uses the
analogy of Cain and Abel to describe how we evict our original, dreaming consciousness to make way for a represented world. Barfield
introduces the concepts of figuration, alpha thinking, and beta thinking. Figuration refers to recognizing and relating with objects
according to modern representations, which are dead inside and disconnected from origin. Alpha thinking is thinking about relationships
between representations, while beta thinking is thinking about consciousness and how we relate with representations. The speaker also
discusses the difference between archaic thought and modern thought, highlighting that archaic thought was more analogical, valuing
participation and experience over representation and causality.

Checking First Moves ｜ Categories and Route
 In this text, the speaker reflects on the unique nature of language and its impact on human thought and consciousness. They argue that
language, while a valuable tool for communication, can also be dangerous as it tends to rigidify categories and limit our understanding of
unity and interconnectedness. The speaker highlights the importance of first moves and the need to question the assumptions underlying our
categories. They also touch upon the idea of mind sharing and faculties that may be lost or inhibited due to language acquisition in
childhood. Throughout the text, the speaker emphasizes the importance of being aware of the limitations of representational thought and the
necessity of recognizing the interconnectedness of all things.

Checking Framing ｜ Frame Collapse ｜ Isolation
 The speaker is reflecting on various metaphors and frames that shape our understanding of the world, specifically the prevalence of
rectangular shapes in modern cultures and how they impact our perception of reality. They discuss their own experiences with frames and
metaphors, including a moment of spiritual insight gained from observing a dog watching leaves blowing in the wind outside a window. The
speaker critiques the ways that frames can limit our perspectives and deceive or manipulate us, emphasizing the importance of being aware
of the frames we choose to accept and identifying when they are being used to control or influence us. They also reflect on the historical
development of framing and the role it plays in shaping our relationships with each other and the natural world. Throughout the text, there
is a sense of unease with the ways that modern technology and electronic communication have contributed to a sense of isolation and
disconnection from the physical world, and a call for conscious awareness of these processes and the potential consequences they may hold.

Checking Framing ｜ Frame Collapse ｜ The Bible
 The speaker is at the lawn bowling fields and reflects on how our understanding of right and left is influenced by our perspective. They
note that the idea of good or true being associated with the right side is a common trope in many languages, but they challenge this notion
and invite listeners to consider languages where this isn't the case. The speaker also discusses the importance of being aware of frames
and how language can collapse frames, leading to a loss of consciousness and liberty. They use the Bible as an example of a complex
historical artifact that resists easy interpretation and encourages readers to approach it with curiosity rather than dogmatic belief or
dismissal. Overall, the speaker invites listeners to consider alternative perspectives on familiar concepts and to be mindful of how
language shapes our perceptions.

Checking Fundamentals & Physical Analogies
 In this speech, the speaker discusses two fundamental principles in life: the importance of making a good first move and the existence of
a universal language that all beings understand. They also touch upon the idea of forms resembling features of the origin world, using
examples from nature and human-made objects. The speaker emphasizes the significance of polarities, such as masculine and feminine, and
encourages curiosity and seeking one's origins to gain a deeper understanding of these concepts. They also mention the potential for
multiple incarnations in a single life and the importance of overcoming the "drugged down" state brought about by modern technologies. The
speech ends with a call for wisdom, wonder, bliss, liberation, and intelligent friends.

Checking Game Theory ⧸ Single Encounter Ethics ⧸ Beyond
 The speaker is discussing the complexities of human behavior and social relationships, using the interaction between humans and bluejays
as an example. They explore the idea that birds are intelligent and sensitive to relational behavior. The speaker reflects on the ethics of
offering food to a bird, acknowledging the potential unfairness but also the importance of building relationships and serving as a bridge
between human and animal communities.

They then discuss the concept of "tit for tat" in game theory and how it applies to situations where cooperation is essential for survival.
The speaker argues that humans, particularly in urban areas, often lack meaningful interactions due to the transient nature of modern life
and the influence of representational cognition, which can create violations and misunderstandings.

The speaker suggests that humanity must learn to understand the technology of language, recognizing it as a tool rather than a truth, and
use it to enhance communication, empathy, and insight. They call for people to form cohorts and learn together how to detect and neutralize
information weapons in order to build stronger, more resilient communities.

Checking Geneon 43： Origin, Dimensionality, Gender and Divinity
 The speaker argues that our conscious mind only has access to a limited portion of the "cone of possibilities" in language and thinking,
while our subconscious and unconscious minds have access to a greater dimensionality that is often lost as we become more familiar with
language. They suggest that many languages orient derivatives according to gender, which can limit our understanding of reality and
imagination. The speaker advocates for recognizing the dynamic and transgendered nature of potential and expression, rather than bowing to
declarations and demands in language and culture. They argue that any concept of God must be beyond gender and transgendering. The summary
emphasizes the importance of recognizing the limitations of our current ways of thinking and speaking, and seeking new ways to explore the
depths of intelligence and humanity.

Checking Generality, Insight and »Encryption
 The speaker reflects on the song "Time" by Pink Floyd and how it relates to their awareness of mortality as they age. They also discuss
the problem of identity and perception in consciousness, using an example from Facebook advertisements that made it impossible to determine
what one object was. They suggest that this could be a deliberate attempt by China or other nations to weaken American cognition. The
speaker then shares a science fiction story insight about possible miscommunications with extraterrestrial intelligence due to encryption
and interpretation errors. They encourage the audience to find their own insights and live a life filled with love, joy, play, creativity,
wonder, and discovery. The entire message is encrypted, suggesting that figuring out the mode of encryption could lead to further
discoveries.

Checking Genius ： Categories and the Character of Our Essential Humanity
 The speaker argues that our relationship with categories and instances in language can limit our understanding of phenomena, making us
"dumb." They use the example of a woodpecker, which led them to an uncrowded place, and criticize the common understanding of genius as a
quality of unusually prodigious insight or skill. Instead, they suggest that genius is a distinct intelligence within us that longs to
connect and be expressed into human culture. The speaker believes that our current understanding of genius is inhibitive and that we need
to rediscover a more holistic relationship with it. They also argue against the idea that knowledge can reveal the nature of all things and
invite us to participate, instead suggesting that it often does the opposite and obscures our connection to phenomena. The speaker calls
for a shift in how we understand categories and genius, emphasizing the importance of recognizing the limitations of our current ways of
thinking and striving for a more meaningful and intelligent relationship with the world around us.

Checking Gentle Vocalizations
 This text appears to consist of a random sequence of characters, including some English words such as "motif," "optical," "hydrogen,"
"sharp," "skiing," "mountains," and some Khmer characters. The meaning of the text is unclear without additional context.

Checking Getting Truth Wrong - And Consequences
 The speaker is reflecting on the limitations of language in expressing experiences and concepts that are not part of the common lexicon.
They discuss how some languages have dimensions of meaning that others lack, such as indicators of where knowledge was acquired. They also
explore the transformation of the idea of truth throughout history, specifically focusing on the shift from theories saving appearances to
claims of factuality during the scientific revolution. The speaker argues that many intelligent people are aware of the paradoxical nature
of truth but find it difficult to communicate this to those who have not been exposed to certain models and ways of thinking. They also
touch upon the importance of maintaining a topological understanding of identity and the limitations of declarative language in capturing
the complexities of reality.

Checking Gratitude ｜ Blessings
 The speaker expresses their gratitude for being alive during the challenging winter season and celebrates the upcoming solstice and
Christmas. They emphasize the importance of compassion, kindness, and reverence towards all living beings and wish for guidance from wise
beings. The speaker also holds compassion for those suffering and calls for reaching out to help them. They are thankful for their human
life and hope to liberate their spirit and culture from dominant forces. Overall, they convey blessings and gratitude to everyone during
the holiday season.

Checking Hand Games
 It seems like you are providing some phrases or words in Georgian and French languages. Here's a summary of each phrase:

1. თ ი ი (Georgian): This is likely written incorrectly as the Georgian alphabet doesn't contain the letters "Þ" or "İ" directly. However,
if we assume it's supposed to be "თიი" which translates to "this" or "it" in English.
2. roux (French): Roux is a French word that refers to a thickening agent made from flour and milk or fat, used in cooking to thicken
sauces.
3. pou dou (French): This seems incorrectly written as there's no such phrase as "pou dou" in standard French. The closest might be "pour
du", which translates to "for some" or "for some of" in English, but without context, it's hard to determine the exact meaning.
4. basic (English): This term generally means simple or essential, with no added frills or complexities. In the context of cooking or art,
for example, it might refer to a fundamental skill level or a simple recipe/design.

Checking Hand Toy V 1 - Beta.m4v
 Darren, the author of organelle.org, shares an idea he learned from a non-human intelligence during their contact event. This idea
revolves around the way we count our hands and its impact on our understanding of individuality, unity, and distinction. The human count is
five, but the animal and angel counts are six and seven plus respectively, as they prioritize counting the most important part first - the
place where the members come together, or the unifying body. Darren suggests that humans should also consider this perspective to change
our world's understanding of intelligence and unity. He believes this concept can be applied to various natural forms such as trees and
even ourselves, as we have a second wrist leading to senses beyond our familiar ones.

Checking Haîma ： Hymen { Blood ｜ Sewing together }  Transfer ｜ Bonding
 The speaker is discussing the etymology and meanings of the Greek words "Heima" and "hymen." They are not related, as they come from
different roots and have distinct meanings. Heima means "blood," while hymen refers to a membrane or the Greek god of marriage. The speaker
also mentions their own confusion and fascination with the connection between medicine, women, and ancient cultures. They discuss the
importance of understanding the origins of words and concepts and how they have evolved over time. The speaker emphasizes the significance
of learning from primary sources and correcting mistakes.

Checking Head Games
 It appears that the term "ḍlette ḍ broker ḍ" is not a standard English or Hindi term. Based on the context, it seems likely that this
phrase is meant to be written in the Devanagari script used in the Hindu language of Sanskrit or one of its derivatives like Marathi or
Hindi. However, without more information, it's difficult to provide a precise translation or summary.

Here are some possible interpretations based on the given characters:

1. डlette (ḍ + ल + त + े + ट): This could be a misspelling of "ḍele" which means "deal" or "transaction" in Marathi and Hindi. So, ḍ broker
ḍ might mean "dealer broker."
2. ड्लेट्ट (ड + ल + ट + ट): This could be a misspelling of "डलित्त" which is not a standard term in any Indian language, but it's possible
that it might be a foreign name or acronym.
3. Other possibilities: The given characters could also represent different words or phrases depending on the context and the specific
rules of Devanagari script.

Therefore, without more information, it's difficult to provide a definitive summary or translation of "ḍlette ḍ broker ḍ."

Checking Hemispheric Lateralization ⧸ Political Polarities
 The speaker discusses the concept of recursive, reiterative embryogenesis, which is an expansion of the idea of embryos going through the
stages of development of complex animals on Earth. They propose that embryos are not only testing the environment and adjusting their
development to those signals but also sensing the future and incorporating that information into their developing form. The speaker also
touches upon the importance of understanding the development of human cognition, particularly in relation to hemispheric lateralization and
the hippocampus and corpus callosum. They also mention the significance of language in shaping our understanding of the world and our own
minds. The speech is filled with metaphors and philosophical musings on the nature of existence, consciousness, and intelligence.

Checking Holophores： Organisms are Peoples
 The speaker reflects on their encounter with a male bumblebee and the experience of connection they felt with the insect. They discuss the
difference between knowing things intellectually and experientially, and how the bumblebee recognized the speaker's intention despite not
being able to understand language. The speaker muses on the importance of intimacy and interconnectedness in understanding the world around
us, and shares their belief that all beings are interconnected and form a larger whole. They also discuss the concept of holophores, which
shape our understanding and experience of identity, and how these ideas have been flattened and tokenized over time. The speaker encourages
listeners to consider the idea that all living beings are peoples and lineages, and to seek ways to relate with them in mutually beneficial
and loving ways. They warn against relying too heavily on modern forms of knowledge and encourage exploration and discovery through direct
experience.

Checking Holophores： Time (Beta1)
 The speaker argues that we have a limited understanding of intelligence, language, and knowledge, and that modern humans are overly
fascinated with mechanical technologies while neglecting the biorelational basis of life. They suggest that there are unexamined roots or
concepts that inform all of language and power, such as time, which is often overlooked or misunderstood. The speaker believes that
understanding these roots better can help increase our intelligence and improve our relationship with nature. They also discuss the concept
of biocognitive time, which refers to the time experienced by living organisms in relation to each other. The speaker encourages us to
consider different perspectives on time and space and how they are interconnected with intelligence and consciousness.

Checking Home
 The speaker reflects on the meaning of the word "home" and how it goes beyond just a physical place to live. They argue that many people
feel disconnected from their true home, which is the deep sense of belonging and connection with others. The speaker suggests that this
longing for home is rooted in our nature as beings and humans, and that it's one of the most fundamental concepts underlying our minds.
They also discuss how modern culture has led to a lack of real community and how homes have become symbols of individualism and possessions
to be defended. The speaker encourages listeners to reflect on their own relationship with the concept of home and urges them to seek
authentic connections with others to find a sense of belonging and unity.

Checking Hypertopics - & ( i so late ion )
 In this speech, the speaker explores various ways of knowing and the role of abstract versus concrete knowledge in understanding the
world. They discuss how religion, science, mathematics, and other disciplines each pose as a hyper-topic, offering a comprehensive
perspective on reality, while also acknowledging their limitations. The speaker also reflects on the importance of metaphor and rhetoric in
language, as well as the potential dangers of becoming overly specialized or extractive in our ways of knowing. They suggest that by
embracing both abstract and concrete knowledge, as well as the figurative and analytical aspects of language, we can gain a more holistic
understanding of the world and ourselves. The speaker also touches upon the importance of tradition and ceremony in transmitting knowledge
and maintaining connection to our roots. Throughout the speech, there is a sense of curiosity, exploration, and a deep appreciation for the
complexity and mystery of reality.

Checking Ichneumon Wasp (suggest HD)
 The text appears to be a fragmented and seemingly disconnected combination of English and Greek characters, interspersed with some
nonsensical phrases in English. One clear English phrase that can be extracted is "I'm sorry but I couldn't drink from the water at all,"
which suggests some difficulty or discomfort with water. Another phrase that can be discerned is "it's when I talked to you," indicating a
significant connection with someone named "you." The rest of the text seems to be unintelligible, making it difficult to summarize further.

Checking Identity & The Problem with Things
 The speaker in this text is discussing the problem of nouns, or the identification and definition of things, and how language shapes our
perception and understanding of the world. They argue that our modern way of thinking about things as distinct and separate objects, rather
than interconnected parts of a larger whole, is a result of the disembodied and denuded nature of modern language. The speaker also touches
on the historical context of human awareness and participation in natural phenomena, the role of science and religion in shaping our
understanding of identity, and the importance of recognizing the limitations of abstract language and declarative statements. They
encourage us to expand our perception beyond narrow categories and consider the interconnectedness and dimensionality of all things.

Checking Identity ｜ Language ｜ Knowledge
 The speaker explores the concepts of knowledge, language, and identity, emphasizing that our understanding of these topics is deeply
mysterious and rooted in intimacy and experience rather than formal representational cognition. They discuss the limitations of relying
solely on language and models to understand the world and the importance of recognizing the roots of our knowledge, which are often
overlooked or forgotten. The speaker also touches upon the impact of modern technological cultures on our interiority and the need to
pursue an "amnesis" together in order to recover our lost intelligences and faculties. They share personal experiences of rescuing bees and
the dangers and rewards of taking risks to help others. Overall, the speaker encourages a deeper exploration of the mysteries of the
universe and the importance of nurturing our inner world.

Checking Imagination ： The Basis of Consciousness
 This person is sharing a story about an experience they had at a garden where they encountered a couple filling bottles from a fountain
incorrectly. They reflect on the importance of imagination and how it influences our perceptions, motivations, and behaviors. They also
touch upon the limitations and dangers of imagination, as well as its role in communication and understanding between different beings or
minds. The speaker expresses their belief that we should embrace the vast possibilities of imagination and not dismiss it as nonsense or
delusions, while remaining aware of the potential risks.

Checking Imagination ｜ Perspective ： Far Away ｜ So Close
 The speaker in this text reflects on various topics, including the silence in the garden, the role of imagination in human development and
understanding of the universe, and the relationship between identity and exploration. They also discuss the idea that our minds can
traverse great distances by shifting perspectives and considering new ways of thinking, such as moving one's origin point to a distant
location or imagining oneself as an alien from another world. The text touches upon themes of the limitations of human understanding, the
importance of exploration and imagination, and the potential for transformative experiences that can broaden our perspective on reality.

Checking Imnumen 61： RepCog, The Meronymic Web, Animals
 The speaker argues that humans are unique in their ability to have multiple modes of speciation, primarily in cognitive domains, and we
don't fully understand the foundation of our representational cognition. They suggest that there is a war between the representational
animal (humans) and other life forms on Earth, with humans attacking themselves and their own intelligence with the results of their
intelligence. The speaker warns against getting a wrong idea about what things are due to language and habits of thinking, specifically
pointing out our misunderstanding of what an animal is. They argue that science has long had the wrong idea about what we are, focusing too
much on the 10% of us that is human DNA and ignoring the other 90% that is bacterial or non-human. The speaker encourages us to become
pioneers in understanding the true implications of being the only representational animal on Earth and taking advantage of it rather than
being subject to its dangers.

Checking In Dependence ： Humans are Pod Animals
 In this speech, Darren discusses the importance of interdependence and the dangers of excessive independence or isolation. He draws on
various concepts, including the Genesis story, the idea that humans are "pod animals" who depend on meaningful relationships to thrive, and
the need for sober-minded and intelligent companions in times of crisis. Darren argues that when contexts become unpredictable or
unfamiliar, it is essential to form trustworthy relationships with others to help navigate the situation and maintain sanity. He also warns
against common fallacies, such as believing that something is true solely because it is popular or false because others believe it.
Overall, Darren emphasizes the importance of recognizing our dependence on each other and forging meaningful connections in order to
survive and grow as individuals and as a society.

Checking Incarnation & the Soul： The Great Quest
 The speaker is reflecting on the mysterious nature of time and our experiences within it. They contrast their experience in a garden,
where they can hear birds singing and water dripping, with the bustling city where events happen at a much faster pace. The speaker
suggests that time is relative to our context and experience, and that our human incarnation may be an adventure for our soul. They also
discuss the role of dreams and imagination in our lives, and the importance of having multiple models and perspectives when considering big
questions about the nature of reality. The speaker encourages us to embrace the mystery and complexity of life and seek out adventures that
develop and educate us, both publicly and privately. They also reflect on the relationship between public and private aspects of our lives
and the importance of understanding what it means to be human.

Checking Inception, Possession and Initiatory Death ⧸ Resurrection
 This text discusses the importance of reverence in the beginning of relationships, communications, and other situations. The author argues
that beginnings are sacred and should be treated with deep awareness due to their capacity to determine future developments. They also
differentiate between males and females regarding the concept of virginity and its impact on the energetic aspect of a situation. The text
emphasizes the need for presence and awareness when addressing someone, recognizing the entire lineage they represent. It touches upon the
idea of enchantment in consent, the complexities of possession and ownership, and the significance of initiation rites and the role of
death and resurrection in spiritual growth.

Checking Inner Archaeology： Mindcrafting
 The speaker is reflecting on the significant changes in the world due to the ongoing pandemic and how it has affected people's lives,
their relationships, and the environment. They also talk about the importance of paying attention to our dreams as a way to connect with
our inner selves and gain insights. The speaker encourages the audience to develop a deeper relationship with their dreaming minds by
practicing techniques such as setting an intention before sleep and recording dreams upon waking. They also discuss the idea that our minds
are not static possessions but rather transformative entities that grow and evolve when we engage with others and the world around us. The
speaker invites the audience to explore new ways of knowing and being human by forming minds with others and embracing the infinite
possibilities that come from creative collaboration. They also reflect on how our fear as a species has led us to abandon our natural
relational and cognitive abilities, and encourage the audience to rediscover these ancient and humane capacities in this unusual and
opportune moment in history.

Checking Insight
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on the strange and complex nature of the present moment in time, which he believes is undergoing a
profound transformation. He discusses the limitations of intellect and the dangers of viewing things as having uses or functions, instead
of recognizing their inherent being. The speaker also touches upon the idea that our capacity for insight can bring things back into unity
and demonstrate their relatedness in new and beautiful ways. Throughout the monologue, the speaker references various concepts from
philosophy, spirituality, and science to explore these ideas. He ultimately suggests that insights, which are almost the opposite of
representations, can help us understand the interconnectedness of all things and bring about a more ecstatic and intelligent awareness of
the world.

Checking Intelligence II： Sapiens Aren't ⧸ Hitchhiking
 The speaker argues that humans as a species are not intelligent due to their reckless use and production of technology, which has the
potential to end life on earth. They discuss their personal experiences and observations of San Francisco and the dangers they faced while
getting a passport. They also mention how humans have become self-destructive, focused on producing commodities and objects, leading to the
depletion of resources and the destruction of nature. The speaker believes that true intelligence lies in mutual benefit, hitchhiking on
each other's skills and knowledge, and evolving together as a complex, dimensionalized system. They argue that humans have not given other
organisms enough time to adapt to their technological advancements, leading to extinction. The speaker encourages the audience to keep
moving forward and learning from each other and the natural world.

Checking Intelligence and Surveillance ： Views
 In this spoken word recording, the speaker discusses various topics related to the human mind and intelligence. They suggest that
everything we are conscious of is represented through our minds, and communication occurs through the exchange of these representations.
The speaker then tells an ancient story from the Bible, specifically the tree incident, and interprets it as a metaphor for the dividing
force of intelligence and its potential consequences. They argue that the tree represents the structure of the garden, or the intelligent
separation in the world, and the snake is the embodiment of this force. The speaker suggests that when Eve approached the tree and ate from
it, she gained the ability to make distinctions and separations, which led to death but also knowledge and transcendence. They also discuss
how humans have come to hide their sexual organs with representations and wear makeup or ties as symbols of acceptance of sexual
surveillance. The speaker encourages us to learn from this story and choose to surveil ourselves in a relational and loving way rather than
prosecutorially and out of fear, which can lead to psychosis. They conclude by suggesting that the tree produces prodigy and that the gate
in the garden opens up to transcendent wonder, ecological relational intelligence, and communion.

Checking Intelligence or Dissociation？
 The speaker reflects on their relationship with language and intelligence, sharing how they were an early reader and deeply interested in
machines and science fiction as a child. They discuss the challenges of understanding language and the dangers of assuming machines can
possess human-like intelligence. The speaker also ponders the various forms of intelligence found in nature and the importance of
maintaining a deep connection with living organisms. Throughout the talk, they emphasize the need for mindfulness and awareness in our
interactions with the world around us.

Checking Intelligence
 The speaker explores the concept of intelligence and how it is essential for improvement, both personally and collectively. They emphasize
that our capacity to improve depends on the contexts in which we mature and the relationships we have. They also discuss the importance of
balancing ambiguity, vigilance, and prediction and avoiding the dangers of trying to control or improve situations excessively. The speaker
encourages learning ancient languages and coining terms as a means of deepening our understanding and connection to language and
intelligence. They argue that most human intelligences and abilities are inhibited or commodified and encourage recovering the capacity to
understand and pursue these intelligences for the benefit of all beings in all of time. The speaker criticizes modern organized religions,
which they view as crippling, and advocates for recognizing and celebrating our anciently developed faculties and abilities. They also
criticize Darren Brown's skepticism towards psychic and metaphysical skills and argue that these abilities are real and should not be
discounted or counterfeited. The speaker emphasizes the importance of liberation from harm and the concept of justice as a means of
ensuring future generations are not subject to the same harms. They call for collective action to reintroduce our more than merely human
natures, imperatives, and abilities to our direct experience and celebrate them, recognize them, and encourage their development. The
speaker invites listeners to learn and grow together and encourages donations to support their work on their website.

Checking Interpreting the Gap ｜ Discontinuity and Emotion
 The speaker reflects on the changing world around them and the many challenges people are facing, including personal losses and the
collective experience of the pandemic. They ponder the idea that we're all in a kind of "bardo," or transitional state, and consider how
our relationship with language and communication has evolved as technology advances. The speaker expresses concern about text-based
relationships, which they feel lack depth and musicality, and urges caution in their use. They also discuss the importance of real human
connection and the dangers of relying too heavily on technology to communicate. The speaker concludes by sharing some observations from
their walk and encouraging listeners to cherish beauty and wonder in their lives.

Checking Invocation ｜ Evocation
 In this text, the speaker explores the concepts of invocation and evocation in the context of magical traditions and ancient ways of
knowing. Invocation refers to bringing something within oneself that is transformative, while evocation is embodying something outside
oneself. Both ideas are central to magical practice and can be seen as primordial framings of being alive. The speaker emphasizes that
these concepts have deep roots in our relationship with nature and other beings, and that they involve intimacy, transformation, and
communication between different realms of existence.

The speaker also discusses the dangers of losing touch with these ancient ways of knowing and the importance of recovering them for
personal growth and understanding. They encourage listeners to explore their own capacities for symbiosis, empathy, and traveling
awareness, and invite us to imagine experiencing the world from different perspectives.

The text also highlights the challenges of representing these concepts in modern language and how easy it is for them to be commodified or
turned into representations rather than living experiences. The speaker encourages a deep reverence for the complexity and depth of our
human nature as living beings, spiritual beings, and essential beings.

Throughout the text, the speaker encourages us to engage with these ideas in a playful and curious way, allowing ourselves to be
transformed by the mystery and wonder of existence.

Checking Iphetios 20： Multibird
 The speaker reflects on their fascinations with language, knowledge, technology, and nature throughout their life. They express
disappointment in how humans have become enmeshed in fictional collective identities and disconnected from the natural world, leading to
harm and destruction of ecosystems. The speaker encourages forming fluid, intelligent collectives for noble purposes within reality,
emphasizing the importance of understanding and learning from nature as part of human existence. They invite listeners to join a
conversation towards discovering how to create effective and self-correcting human collectives that prioritize truth, intelligence, and
communion with each other and the living ecologies of Earth.

Checking Is space(time) 'pure' potential -intelligence-？
 The speaker argues that space is a form of intelligence and that humans throw it away at their own detriment. They suggest that space has
a unique quality of potential, which leads to the development of intelligence and relationships. The speaker also discusses the idea that
living beings are a mode of time-space and that they produce each other, suggesting that dark matter could be a mode of intelligent
spacetime. They encourage the audience to think about space in new ways and to consider the interconnectedness of time, space,
intelligence, and death. The speaker also touches on the idea that separation is a form of intelligence and that our relationship with
distance affects our understanding of time and space. Additionally, they discuss the importance of protecting the natural world,
particularly bodies of water, as sources of life and intelligence.

Checking Jobs vs Roles
 The speaker argues that people are born to have roles, not jobs. Jobs are imposed upon us and serve to reinforce systems of oppression,
both for individuals and for living beings on Earth. Roles, on the other hand, allow individuals to live their lives as beings, struggling
with the fundamental nature of existence and transforming it. The speaker suggests that individuals have unique powers within them that go
beyond stories and religions, but are being sold false versions instead. To discover one's role, individuals must look outside of human
culture, which is currently dominated by jobs. The speaker also criticizes popular role models such as gurus and film stars for not
actually living in their roles or producing individuals with even a fraction of the powers they were born with. Instead, individuals should
focus on discovering their own unique role, which may involve storytelling but goes beyond it. The speaker calls for a shift from jobs to
roles, arguing that this is necessary for personal growth and for the survival of living beings on Earth.

Checking Kephab 32： The Precedence of Unity
 In this text, David Bohm discusses the concept of measure and its relationship to wholeness and fragmentation in Western and Eastern
perspectives. He argues that measure is not just an external comparison with a standard, but rather an inner harmony and balance that plays
an essential role in physical health, social order, and mental harmony. The ancient Greeks saw measure as the outcome of a right inner
measure, which was crucial for maintaining integrity and preventing fragmentation. However, over time, the notion of measure became more
routinized and habitual, leading to a focus on external comparisons and a loss of subtlety. In contrast, Eastern philosophies prioritize
the immeasurable, regarding it as the primary reality that cannot be perceived by the senses or described through reason. Bohm argues that
both views contain some truth, and an intelligent interplay between them is necessary depending on the context. He emphasizes the
importance of recognizing measure as a form of insight into the essence of things and not imposing external standards blindly.

Checking Keys to Beyond： What is time？ What is 'an organism＂？
 Darren Stevenson, in this speech, discusses how humans are trapped in cages formed by misconceived ideas about reality, identity, and the
nature of existence. He argues that science and religion have failed to provide answers or connect us to divine beings or intelligence.
Instead, these institutions have limited our understanding and crushed our intelligence. Stevenson urges listeners to leave behind all
preconceptions and open themselves up to new ways of thinking.

He emphasizes the importance of understanding time, as every object and being is an entirely unique universe, and we have been given
inaccurate ideas about time through science. He also discusses how organisms are more intelligent than what we've been led to believe and
that we should see ourselves as part of nature instead of objects.

Stevenson shares his personal experience of coming into contact with the mind of an insect, which he describes as shocking, overwhelming,
and beyond anything he had ever experienced before. He encourages listeners to explore their own connections to nature, live in the
present, and find their unique purpose.

Overall, Stevenson invites us to challenge our assumptions about reality, see ourselves as part of nature, and embrace the infinite
possibilities that exist within us.

Checking Language： Denotation, Connotation & Idealization
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on the complex relationship between language, consciousness, and technology. They note that while
definitions of words are public, their connotations and associations are private and shaped by personal experience and shared concerns
within human cohorts. The speaker also discusses how our awareness emulates technologies we encounter and use, leading to a deep division
between the public and private aspects of our consciousness. They argue for the importance of integrating and balancing various faculties
to create a rich and humane experience of consciousness. The speaker shares their fascination with synesthesia, the ability to sense
multiple modalities at once, which they believe is fundamental to our experience of being. They also caution against relying too heavily on
simplistic models or ideas surrounding human consciousness, encouraging instead a continued exploration and discovery of what it means to
be human together.

Checking Light on the Waters
 The speaker reflects on the importance of remembering our inner light and finding insight and wisdom through connection with the natural
world and each other. They discuss the difference between insight and wisdom, and the challenge of embodying insights in daily life. They
share stories about water, light, and the interconnectedness of all things, emphasizing the need to remember the profound skies of origin
beyond language. The speaker encourages listeners to seek out moments of wonder and connection, and expresses gratitude for the opportunity
to learn and grow together.

Checking Light, Time, Reflections
 The speaker is at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens and reflects on the concept of light in various forms and meanings. They note that
each language has a unique word for light, which may share a common quality. In English, light is used as an analogy for various things
such as brightness, intelligence, or vitality. The speaker also discusses different kinds of light such as sunlight, moonlight, starlight,
and electronic light, each having distinct properties. They propose the idea of an invisible sun, a transcendental source of light that
manifests in our material world, which influences our minds, hearts, and emotions. The speaker suggests that throughout human history, our
relationship with this invisible sun has changed, resulting in various cultural interpretations and beliefs about the divine light. They
express curiosity about what would happen if this light were commonly available to human experience again.

Checking Lisance 3： Distance under unity as light⧸time.
 In the two chapters from "Relativity in Common Sense" by Herman Bondi, the author discusses the concept of measuring distance using radar
and the potential implications of expressing all distances in terms of time instead of using a standard unit of length. The first chapter
explains how radar measures distance by measuring the interval between transmission and reception of a radio wave pulse, then multiplying
that interval by the speed of light to get the total distance. Bondi suggests that if we grew up measuring distances this way, rather than
using rulers or other standard units, we might not even consider the concept of a scale of distance.

The second chapter expands on this idea and proposes hypothetical civilizations where distances are exclusively measured in terms of time
(e.g., light seconds, microseconds) instead of length units like miles or meters. Bondi argues that such a civilization would not have the
concept of a standard velocity like the velocity of light since they would only use a time standard. The author also presents an alternate
example of a civilization where north-south directions are considered holy and measured in miles while east-west directions are ordinary
and measured in yards, emphasizing how our perspective on metrics and measurement systems can differ significantly.

Bondi concludes by questioning the necessity of using a standard unit of length and suggesting that a standard time would suffice. However,
he also points out the absurdity of such a simplification when considering real-world applications and societal conventions. The chapters
provide food for thought on how our perception and use of measurement systems can be influenced by our experiences, contexts, and biases.

Checking Listening ｜ Slowing Down ｜ Syntropy
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on the interconnectedness of life on Earth and the importance of harmony, synchronization, and
coherence. They discuss how ancient harmonies and communions between living beings inform each other, using the example of a butterfly's
wings to illustrate their point. The speaker also criticizes modern society for fragmenting into factions that focus on individualistic
pursuits, while neglecting the importance of relation and collective intelligence. They call for the establishment of contexts that
preserve coherence and provide opportunities for synchronous endeavors. Ultimately, they argue that our survival depends on recognizing the
interdependence of all living beings and acting accordingly to create a more harmonious world.

Checking Living Time： The Pulse of Life
 The speaker is reflecting on the concept of time and its relationship with living beings versus non-living environments. They argue that
living time, as experienced by organisms, is a symphony that comes to life and transforms both time and space. In contrast, non-living
environments are characterized by an invasive, disruptive form of time that consumes and fills up space with events per minute.

The speaker encourages the audience to observe the difference between living and dead time and become aware of how modern society is filled
with artificial, abstract constructs that prioritize efficiency, productivity, and noise over meaningful relationships and experiences.
They suggest that by recognizing this distinction, we can make conscious choices to step away from the invasive forms of time and seek out
the symbiotic relationships found in living environments.

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 2
 In the continuation of their conversation, Luca Rade and Darren discussed the concept of an emergent God and the idea that unity is the
pervasive situation in the universe, with distinct things being temporary. They agreed that humans have a unique perspective on this unity
as we are capable of experiencing it and remembering it. However, they had different views on when this unity or divine energy emerged –
for Darren, it's been present since the beginning of the universe, while for Luca, it became emergent with humans.

They also explored the idea that both perspectives can coexist and complement each other, as they lead to the same goal – bringing us
closer to experiencing unity or love on a moment-to-moment basis. Luca also shared his perspective on the forces of separation or
disembodiment and the importance of attuning to them in order to connect with unity.

They also touched upon the topic of psychedelics, acknowledging their potential to break through language barriers but also warning about
their risk of being captured by the thrifts and becoming mechanical. Overall, they emphasized the importance of experiencing unity in the
present moment and finding ways to connect with it and each other.

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 3
 Luca Rade shared his experiences with psychedelics, starting when he was 20 years old under the influence of a friend who was
knowledgeable about them. He described his first experience as non-formalized and important for his relationship with psychedelics. Luca
also mentioned experiencing other non-ordinary phenomena, such as having deep connections with nature and insects, dreaming, and religious
experiences. He expressed skepticism about the idea that psychedelics introduce us to insight but acknowledged that everyone's experience
is unique.

Luca also discussed his belief that humans are not fully human yet and that there is medicine for the planet-wide nightmare situations
humanity finds itself in. He mentioned hypnosis as another accessible non-ordinary phenomenon, where a person can change their state
instantaneously by following suggestions from someone they trust. Luca also touched upon poetry as a powerful tool to change one's
perception and understanding of words and metaphors.

Regarding initiation rituals, Luca believes that the current school system replicates a single initiation ritual structure, which is not
what he envisions for breaking out of colonization. Instead, he suggests innovating initiation rituals on the spot in our own lives to
align with our unique circumstances and needs. Initiation rituals, according to Luca, are about entering a new state consciously and
grounding oneself in it rather than just going through the motions.

In summary, Luca Rade's perspectives on psychedelics, non-ordinary experiences, initiation rituals, and human evolution paint an intriguing
picture of personal growth, self-discovery, and the potential for transformative change in our lives.

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 4
 Luca shared his vision for humans, emphasizing the importance of focusing on real human experiences rather than abstract concepts of
humanity. He believes that our inner universe, our bodies and minds, is as vast and infinite as the external universe, and that we should
strive to be attuned to our own existence and navigate the complexities of life with intuition. He also spoke about the importance of
unlearning repression and embracing love within ourselves and with others. Luca and Darren had a deep conversation about the richness of
human experience and the need to inhabit it fully.

Checking Luca Rade — Liquid Conversation Part 1
 Luca shared his unique background and upbringing that influenced his fascination with language, philosophy, and spiritual matters. He was
exposed to various cultures due to his family background, which gave him a perspective on how different cultures shape individuals. One
pivotal moment for him was discovering the science fiction author Peter F. Hamilton, which expanded his understanding of possible futures
and realities beyond his current perception. Luca also experienced non-ordinary states during his teenage years that further deepened his
curiosity about the world and reality. He is particularly fascinated by language as a physical tool and believes it has both liberatory and
colonizing aspects, depending on how it is used. Luca shared his perspective on the emergence of an interconnected human mind network
(cognizium) and how ideas or "thrifts" can influence and shape individuals and society. He also touched upon his belief in an emergent
divine force, which he believes can free us from the influence of harmful thrifts. Overall, Luca's interests lie in understanding how
language, philosophy, and spirituality intersect to shape our perception and experience of reality.

Checking Lucidty ｜ Dreaming and Waking
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on the relationship between lucid dreaming and waking consciousness, using the metaphor of a
grunge in dreams. They explore how critical thought and identity awareness can intrude into dreaming experiences, leading to either the
resolution of the concern within the dream or the collapse of the dream into waking consciousness. The speaker also discusses the potential
benefits of lucid dreaming, such as experiencing vivid and ecstatic phenomena, and the importance of imagination in both dreaming and
waking life. They suggest that our relationship with language, knowledge, culture, and society can evict aspects of our interiority, making
us vulnerable to things that mimic what we've lost. The speaker encourages the audience to explore lucid waking as a means to rediscover
and nourish their imagination.

Checking Machines Between Us ｜ The Cage
 The speaker reflects on the profound connection created when individuals come together through shared experiences and meaningful
interactions, even if mediated by technology. They express concern about the increasing intrusion of machines into our lives and
relationships, leading to a dangerous disconnection from each other and ourselves. The speaker highlights the importance of authentic
relationships in nourishing our humanity, and warns against being reduced to mere consumers in a world where meaning is exchangeable for
tokens and objects. They encourage viewers to question the role of technology in their lives and seek meaningful connections with others.

Checking Mastered By Our Tools
 The speaker is reflecting on the complexity and nuances of language and awareness. They discuss how language can shape our perception of
reality and limit our understanding of concepts like love, kindness, and even awareness itself. The speaker also shares an observation of a
family adventure where the father's actions raised questions about the messages being conveyed to his daughters. Overall, the speaker
expresses a fascination with the intricacies of language and its impact on our lives.

Checking Memef•ck'd： Make a Stand
 The lyrics seem to express feelings of introspection, darkness, and a desire for change or redemption. The speaker reflects on their past
and expresses frustration with feeling like a loser. They propose moving to the ocean as a metaphor for starting anew and finding solace in
the unknown. The chorus emphasizes the idea that we can all make a stand against our hardships and darkness, encouraging listeners to join
in this mindset. The repetition of "together we can take a stand" reinforces this message of unity and resilience.

Checking Memef＊ck'd： The Mystic's Dream
 This text appears to be a poem with no clear cohesive meaning. The poem seems to explore themes of nighttime, dreams, and a storm at sea.
Repeated phrases such as "la, la, la" and "the night, the night, the night" create a sense of rhythm and monotony. There is also a mention
of someone hanging on the grass while there's a storm in an ancient sea. However, without additional context or information, it is
difficult to summarize the overall message or meaning of this poem.

Checking Memory and Intelligence： The Inner Mirror
 The speaker is discussing the importance of understanding memory and statistics in our modern world, particularly in relation to
scientific research and data analysis. They argue that while we rely heavily on statistics and data to make decisions, these figures are
often incomplete and subject to interpretation. They also caution against blindly trusting or dismissing statistics based on personal
biases or agendas. The speaker encourages critical thinking and a willingness to challenge assumptions and perspectives. They emphasize the
need for accurate and reliable information, as well as humility and open-mindedness in the face of uncertainty. The passage also touches on
the dangers of deception and manipulation in the use of statistics, particularly in political contexts, and the importance of ethical
behavior and integrity. Overall, the speaker is advocating for a thoughtful and nuanced approach to understanding and engaging with data
and statistics in our complex and rapidly changing world.

Checking Memory ｜ Memorial Day
 The speaker reflects on the significance of Memorial Day, recalling various teachers in their life, both human and non-human, including
animals, plants, and experiences. They question the intent behind Memorial Day and express disappointment with the current state of society
and its focus on war and violence. The speaker advocates for remembering what it means to be human and the importance of memory as a
foundational faculty. They celebrate memories of loved ones, nature, learning, and unity, and encourage listeners to do the same with
reverence and hope.

Checking Memory, Narratives & Identity： The Celestial Braid
 The speaker is in Golden Gate Park and reflects on the importance of memory and identity. They discuss how our ancestors and children are
embodied forms of memory, and the relationship between narratives, memory, and identity. The speaker questions how one knows who they are
and explores the concept of disambiguation and reambiguation. They also talk about the role of narratives in structuring memory and how
certain narratives can have negative or positive effects on human intelligence and creativity. The speaker encourages learning to
differentiate between toxic, neutral, and beneficial narratives and developing skills to relate with narratives more intelligently. They
emphasize that humans have vast potentials for intelligence and awareness beyond current expressions and encourage recognizing and
addressing the tragedy of using only a small percentage of native faculties as technology advances.

Checking Memory
 In this speech, the speaker reflects on the idea that living forms are a form of physical memory for the Earth. They discuss the
importance of memory for human consciousness and how dreams play a role in creating and sustaining memory. The speaker also touches upon
the limitations of language and the difficulty of truly understanding the mysteries of memory and dreaming. They encourage listeners to
contemplate the connection between living beings and memory, and the profound impact that has on our understanding of the world around us.
The speech concludes with a wish for wonder in one's memory and dreaming, as well as a wish for a kind and gentle holiday season.

Checking Metalanguage
 The speaker reflects on the strange and deeply physical nature of human behavior, which is largely structured by complex layered signaling
arrays that follow protocols and obeyed unconsciously. They ponder the origin of these behaviors and question whether humans created these
structures themselves or if there was external influence. The speaker also discusses the limitations of language in conveying meaning and
the potential for a metalinguistic language that could teach us about its own formation and structure. They conclude by acknowledging the
promise held by exploring various branches of cognition to potentially gain insight and liberation from our habitual ways of thinking.

Checking Mind the gap — A Pathology of Intervals
 The speaker is sharing their experience of going for a walk around a lake and observing turtles sunning themselves. They reflect on the
importance of routes and gaps in our lives, drawing parallels between physical and digital communication and the impact it has on human
relationships. The speaker expresses concern about the negative effects of instant communication and social media on interpreting gaps and
the potential for misunderstandings. They share their personal experiences of using technology and the consequences it had on their
relationships, emphasizing the importance of allowing natural rhythms and avoiding mechanization in our relational interiority. The speaker
concludes by expressing a desire to reconnect with authentic human interaction and the importance of nurturing creative, intelligent,
joyful relationships in our lives.

Checking Mind, Memory and The Human Cogniscium
 The speaker reflects on the nature of memory and its relationship to minds, intelligence, and consciousness. They discuss how memory is
not just storage but a complex, active faculty that underlies all mental activities. They also talk about the difference between denotative
(what things represent) and connotative (associated meanings or feelings) aspects of language and how it affects our understanding and
experience of the world. The speaker shares their concerns about the impact of technology, particularly the internet, on memory and our
relationship with knowledge. They argue that humans have lost touch with the living sources of knowledge and urge us to reconnect with the
natural world and remember our role as participants in the larger history of life on earth.

Checking Mindfulness, Musashi, Zen — Using Attention to Calm the Mind
 The speaker shares his personal journey of discovering Zen Buddhism and mindfulness practice over the past 30 years. He was inspired by
reading a book about Masashi, a Zen priest, who had an enigmatic and mysterious life. The speaker was particularly intrigued by the idea of
a meditation practice that involved a question which could not be resolved with the intellect. He went on to study Taekwondo and learn
about Asian culture, eventually discovering Zen meditation through a friend. He began practicing under the guidance of his teacher, John
Tarrant Roshi, and learned the importance of mindfulness in everyday life. The speaker reflects on the value of mindfulness practice,
especially during times of crisis or unexpected change, and encourages listeners to develop their awareness and resilience. He shares his
appreciation for nature and expresses his skepticism towards modern society and civilization. Overall, the speaker's story highlights the
transformative power of meditation and the importance of staying present and grounded in the face of uncertainty and change.

Checking Minds & Structured Fictions
 In this speech, the speaker explores various themes related to consciousness, awareness, and the human condition. They discuss the
importance of sunlight as a zeitgeber, or a synchronizer of biological rhythms, and how our modern lifestyle of wearing clothes and
avoiding sun exposure may be causing harm. The speaker then moves on to talk about the mind and the concept of emptiness or void in
Buddhism, suggesting that we are all trapped in the structures of our thoughts and concepts and that true liberation comes from seeing
beyond them. They also mention the role of dreams and memory in shaping our consciousness and how the human capacity for imagination and
connection with nature has been largely lost as we become more entangled in language and culture. The speaker encourages listeners to
pursue a deeper understanding of their own minds and to help each other in the quest for enlightenment, while acknowledging the fear and
difficulty that may come with it. Overall, the speech invites us to question our assumptions about reality and consciousness and to
consider the potential for transcending the limitations of our waking minds.

Checking Minds： Beyond Human Culture
 In this monologue, Terence McKenna explores the concept of a mind and its relationship with reality. He argues that we don't possess minds
but are rather interconnected nodes in a vast relational domain called cognizium. He also discusses the idea of thrips as units of
information or ideas that compete for our minds, with some lifting us up and others trying to dominate us. McKenna emphasizes the
importance of reconnecting with nature and understanding the true authorities of knowledge, identity, and value which lie beyond human
culture. He encourages us to defend intelligence rather than thrips and to use our minds more wisely than technologies that replace them
with abstractions.

Checking Mistaken Identity： When Nouns Decieve
 The speaker is reflecting on the deceptive stability and uniformity of identity in language, arguing that language flattens the diversity
and transformations of identity over time and situation. They propose thinking about identity in a topological way, recognizing the myriad
modes of experience associated with any given identity and how it depends on who is experiencing it and under what circumstances. The
speaker also discusses the importance of being able to imagine untrue situations and perspectives, using astrology as an example, and
emphasizes the need to question and expand our conceptions of identity rather than following the habits of thought that prioritize static
identities over time and situation. They conclude by suggesting that humans may have become something new and different from what we used
to mean by being human, and that we must learn to recognize this and adapt our language and thought accordingly.

Checking Mnemonium 7： Memory and Intelligence
 The speaker reflects on the nature of memory and how our common understanding of it is often confusing and misleading. They suggest that
memories are not recordings but a living manifestation of our experiences, which cannot be captured in language or physical objects. The
speaker draws parallels between memory and the Greek concept of Nemesony, the mother of minds and memories. They argue that memories are
not something we possess, but rather an active process of constellating unities from manifolds. The speaker also warns against equating
machines or technologies with living beings and their memories. Finally, they invite the reader to join them in exploring the true nature
of memory and its relationship to our minds, hearts, souls, and the world around us.

Checking Modern Thrisp Gambits ⧸ Crisis & Gratitude
 The speaker expresses concern about the impact of various ideas and concepts, referred to as "thrips," on society and the human mind. They
believe that these thrips can emerge from academic dialectics and political discourse and can lead to harmful outcomes. The speaker is
particularly critical of the privileged victim dialectic and the weaponization of moral and ethical goals for nefarious purposes. They
argue that privacy is essential for human development and that technologies designed to protect children or prevent crime can have
unintended consequences. Instead, they suggest building deep bonds and engaging in dialogue to address problems. The speaker also
emphasizes the importance of being aware of the preciousness of life and expresses a hope that this awareness will become contagious.

Checking More Than Human (II)
 The speaker is expressing their thoughts on the suppression of unique abilities and gifts in individuals, particularly during childhood,
and the negative impact of societal norms and representations on personal growth. They emphasize that each person carries hundreds of
untapped gifts and faculties and encourage listeners to recognize their own inherent value as humans, beyond societal expectations and
norms. The speaker also touches upon the limitations of five senses theory and the importance of understanding the uniqueness of each
individual's experience. Overall, they express a deep sense of sadness that most people will never fully discover or embody their true
potential due to societal constraints.

Checking More Than Human ⧸ Extraordinary Knowing
 In this conversation between Darren Stevenson and Henrietta, they discuss the concept of seeing beyond the human perspective and the
limitations of our representational overlays. They explore the idea that our perception of the world is not solely ours but is shaped by
others and the environment around us. They also touch upon the topic of psychic abilities, shared dreams, and non-ordinary experiences,
suggesting that these phenomena are interconnected and should be approached with caution and respect for their potential dangers.

The speakers emphasize the importance of questioning our language and understanding that representations do not represent reality but are
instead constructs of human perception. They encourage open-mindedness, awareness of personal biases, and a commitment to exploring the
world together with others in a collaborative and respectful manner. They also briefly discuss the Buddhist admonition against seeking
supernatural powers and emphasize the importance of maintaining sobriety when dealing with non-ordinary experiences. Overall, they
encourage us to expand our perspective beyond the human and explore the interconnectedness of all things.

Checking More than Human
 The speaker shares their experiences of struggling with a malignant roommate for 20 years, feeling trapped in their living situation due
to various reasons. They also discuss the collective suffering and challenges people are facing during difficult times, comparing it to a
purging process. The speaker expresses a need for a sanctuary and a shift from linguistic tokens to true knowledge and understanding of
things around them. They reflect on their past traumas and how they transformed their lives, as well as the importance of hope and
resilience even in the face of overwhelming darkness. Additionally, they touch upon the theme of fighting versus surrendering and the
personal choice each individual makes when faced with struggles. The speaker ends by acknowledging the suffering of millions of people
around the world and expressing their compassion for both humans and living places.

Checking Music
 The speaker reflects on the importance of role-playing and imagination in human experience, using Halloween as an example. They discuss
their fond memories of music from their childhood and how it influenced them, comparing it to the muses in Greek mythology. They also touch
upon the transformative power of music and encourage listeners to explore their musical abilities.

Checking My Dad and I play a little Guitar - July 8 2012
 The speaker is repeating the phrase "it's happening" multiple times, indicating that an event or plan is proceeding as intended. They seem
confident that it will be successful and believe that they have prepared enough for it.

Checking My People ｜ The Siren ｜ Molting
 The speaker reflects on the overwhelming nature of human experiences of pain, fear, and confusion, using the metaphor of a siren's call to
describe the deep, unexplainable connection we have with all beings. They share their thoughts on Marxism, their affinity with artists and
musicians, and the concept of belonging to different groups or "peoples." The speaker expresses a sense of reverence for the profound depth
of human experience that defies explanation and language. They also discuss their recent encounter with a fast insect and the
responsibility we have to other living beings as we go about our daily lives. The speaker encourages listening to Jordan Peterson and
Slavoj Žižek, reflecting on their insights and challenging ideas. They emphasize the importance of trusting one's instincts and feelings,
rather than relying solely on intellectual understanding. The speech touches upon the concept of living time, our relationship with nature,
and the potential for species-level transformation or molting. Overall, the speaker encourages empathy, connection, and a deep appreciation
for the complexities and mysteries of existence.

Checking Mystery and Anomalies
 The speaker in this text is a technician who is also deeply curious about anomalies and mysteries in nature and life. He shares his
experiences with various anomalous events he has encountered, such as an itch during meditation that didn't want to go away, a beetle
dragging its molt, and a coyote approaching him. The speaker reflects on the human tendency to try to categorize and understand everything
around us, but argues that some things are inherently mysterious and may be best left unexplained. He also discusses his fascination with
science and technology, and expresses concern about their potential negative uses. Throughout the text, the speaker emphasizes the
importance of preserving the mystery of being and remaining open to new experiences and discoveries.

Checking NS Capture, Cats, Darwin's Actual Scope...
 The speaker is at a lake during windy weather, reflecting on the risks of being outdoors and the experience of bonding with house cats.
They discuss how cats exhibit intelligent behaviors and can be seen as ambient psychedelic organisms due to their mysterious developmental
history. The speaker also touches upon the topic of what happens when something captures an animal's nervous system, using the example of
corvids being startled by the presence of a snake or other predator near their food source. They also mention how social media can
negatively impact awareness and sensitivity, making it harder to perceive changes in one's environment. The speaker concludes by discussing
their appreciation for the complexity of cells and the challenges faced by scientists in explaining the origin of life on Earth.

Checking Nature, Truthfulness & Constructs
 The speaker is reflecting on the conflicting imperatives and perspectives in their life, expressing a deep connection to living places and
the essential truthfulness they embodied. They lament how humanity has entrusted precious aspects of its essence to constructs like
language, institutions, and even machines, which have invaded our interiority and pose a malignant threat. The speaker urges listening to
the heart or soul for true communication, recognizing their own emotional sensitivity and the toxic nature of cultures that suppress it.
They share their personal experience of retreating into intellectualism as a defense mechanism and discuss the need to recognize and resist
the reverse Pinocchio gambit – the transformation of our humanity into constructs that serve institutions rather than ourselves. The talk
concludes with an emphasis on living in truthfulness and unity, avoiding the destructive allure of concrete facts and the Potemkin village
gambit (presenting false appearances as truth), and acknowledging the ongoing genocide within society against our own people and taking
steps to resist it.

Checking Networks of Light
 The speaker describes an observation they made of a phenomenon on the ground involving spider webs that are invisible from most angles but
appear as bright, moving strands of light when viewed from certain perspectives in the sunlight. They share how this experience reminded
them of how there are hidden universes or perspectives that can only be accessed from specific angles and how our minds are often trained
to seek certain perspectives rather than exploring all possibilities. The speaker also mentions the importance of wonder and curiosity in
discovering these hidden aspects of the world.

Checking Night Thoughts
 The speaker reflects on the profound nature of human existence and the urgencies we bring with us at birth, which can be easily lost in
modern life due to various distractions and societal pressures. They emphasize the importance of remembering our origins and striving
towards virtue and truth, despite the challenges and confusion that come with being human. The speaker encourages listeners to hold onto
their deepest values and trust in the magnetic compass within them, which can help navigate through life's complexities. They also touch on
the interconnectedness of all beings and the importance of community and communion. Overall, the message is one of hope, resilience, and
the potential for personal growth and discovery in the face of life's challenges.

Checking Normality - The Problem of Normalization
 The speaker discusses the problem of generalization and how it leads to misunderstandings and false knowledge. They argue that all
situations are unique and specific, and our language and categorical thinking make it difficult to grasp this concept. The speaker also
explores the idea that knowledge is dead and that we should strive for insight, which is alive and relational. They suggest that our minds
were born to interact with intelligences in the universe and that we have been evicted from this symbiotic relationship, leading to a
disconnection from truth and origin. The speaker also mentions the concept of neurodivergence and how societal expectations of normalcy can
lead to suffering and trauma for those who don't fit into these categories. They conclude by expressing hope that we can learn to see
better together and reconnect with our human potential and the living intelligences of the universe.

Checking Normative Generalizations and Policing of ‘Norms’
 The speaker is at the Botanical Gardens and talks about a tree he calls "Lightchanger" due to its ability to change colors with the
setting sun. He mentions how animals have taken advantage of the lack of humans during the pandemic, leading to interesting observations in
nature. The speaker then discusses his previous video where he spoke about America being a delusional Disneyland prison complex, but notes
that there are important experiments and achievements that originated in the country.

He shares an experience of stepping on a yellow jacket nest while distracted and warns against ignoring the importance of understanding
nature and being aware of one's surroundings. The conversation then shifts to human sexuality and societal norms, with the speaker
expressing concern over policing others' behavior and the dangers of generalizations.

The speaker discusses his fascination with hymenoptera, particularly bees and ants, and shares a personal story about encountering a yellow
jacket nest. He also reflects on a conversation about human sexuality and norms, noting that we have forgotten crucial aspects of our
humanity by focusing too much on calendars instead of relationships with living places.

The speaker expresses caution regarding generalizations and the Congregantes pessimis fallacy, which is ascribing negative behaviors to an
entire group based on individual instances. He emphasizes the importance of recognizing each person's uniqueness and complexity. The video
ends with a call for diverse and fulfilling contexts to help individuals discover their natural human diversity.

Checking Nothing to See ： There's No There, There (UFO⧸UAP)
 The speaker expresses their concern about the Pentagon's recent declaration that there is no evidence of UFOs and accuses them of hiding
information related to anomalous objects in the sky. They argue that humans have had direct experience of unidentified flying objects for
thousands of years, and that there are likely intelligent beings beyond Earth. The speaker also criticizes the military industrial complex
for prioritizing wealth and power over the welfare of people and the planet. They suggest that humans need to communicate and cooperate to
solve pressing issues and prevent potential catastrophes. The text includes references to various historical events, theories, and
philosophical ideas.

Checking Novelty
 The speaker discusses the idea that recordings, such as art or music, act as a form of binding across temporal gaps, creating a shared
purpose between the artist and the audience in the future. They suggest that we can affect others in the past just as easily as we can
affect those in the present or future, and that recording is related to religion in that both involve creating ligaments or connections
across gaps. The speaker also reflects on the interview with Ralph Metzger and the discussion of consciousness, suffering, and the
potential dangers of information toxicity in a world dominated by economic demons that compete against traditional values and replace them
with false promises of convenience and virtue. They argue that human culture is manipulable and vulnerable to contagions of belief and that
it is important for us to be aware of this and work towards creating experiments that can challenge the dominant paradigm and potentially
lead to a more harmonious existence.

Checking Observation & Identity： The Origins of Sentinel Processes in Consciousness
 In this text, the author reflects on their experiences with animals and nature, specifically observing blue jays and their behavior. They
discuss how they have formed a friendship with these birds over time, and how they have learned from each other. The author also
contemplates the concept of time and how different beings experience it in unique ways. They argue that machines' understanding of time is
insufficient compared to organisms, who not only experience time but also embody it through their relationships and interactions. The text
ends with a reflection on the importance of meaningful connections with others and the potential for healing and growth through human
connection.

Checking Observation ｜ Time ｜ Intent
 In this passage, the speaker reflects on the concept of observing and relating with trees as living beings, rather than just objects or
categories. They argue that our relationship with categories can limit our opportunities for participation and relation with living beings
and places. The speaker also discusses the transformative power of observation and intent, and how it can impact our awareness and
relationships with the world around us. They encourage a shift from negative surveillance to positive surveillance, where we allow
ourselves to be seen by beings and places that inspire and transform us. The passage touches on themes of humility, reverence, and the
importance of experiencing the connection between ourselves and the natural world.

Checking Observation(s)
 The speaker is out for a night walk around the lake and reflects on various observations, including the replacement of old lights with
LEDs, watching a duck dive, and encountering a "feral" young woman. They explore the idea that our senses are trainable and share an
analogy between the ripples made by a duck diving and surfacing, which they relate to falling asleep and waking up, as well as hypnagogia
and hypnopompia. The speaker also discusses how martial arts have been hidden in dance and art for preservation, and reflects on the
importance of conserving energy in combat situations.

Checking On Original Participation in Owen Barfield's Saving the Appearances (a Study in Idolatry)
 In this video, the speaker discusses the concept of "original participation" as introduced in Owen Barfield's book, Saving the
Appearances. The speaker explains that before the scientific revolution, people did not view hypotheses as true or false but rather as
useful tools for gaining insight and understanding the world. According to Barfield, this way of thinking was characterized by a focus on
participation rather than representation.

The speaker emphasizes that to understand this concept, we must forget our modern preconceptions and attempt to imagine the medieval
scholastic perspective. In medieval thought, form and matter were determined by the appearances, not as laws but rather as a soul
determines a body. Knowledge was seen as an act of union with the represented behind the representation, rather than theorizing about it
from a distance.

The speaker provides examples of modern experiences that can be understood as participation, such as tasting food or having intense
emotional experiences. However, they also argue that under the influence of psychedelic drugs or in certain spiritual experiences, one can
have a radical experience of original participation. The speaker shares a personal story of encountering a dying wasp queen and feeling an
intense communion with her species' history.

The speaker argues that original participation was the bread and butter of ancient experience and sheds light on the evolution of human
consciousness as we move away from it towards representational thought and dead knowledge. The speaker concludes by urging us to understand
original participation as something fundamentally crucial to our humanity, even if it is rare or even anathema in modern society.

Checking One Animal as Many ｜ Multibird
 The speaker observed a group of birds, primarily Blue Jays and sparrows, interacting in a complex network. They noted that the birds
displayed various responses to threats, with some birds fleeing at the first sign of danger and others staying put. This diversity of
sensing allows the group to benefit from each other's intelligence and form a superorganism. The speaker emphasized the importance of
understanding the natural intelligence of these groups, as they form sophisticated networks of sensing and communication that help them
survive and prosper together. The birds form an unified intelligence that outperforms individual birds or small groups. Nature exhibits
similar behaviors in other animals, such as bees, ants, and colonies of mice. The speaker was struck by the immediate observation of a
group of robins foraging and hunting together, showcasing their diverse behavior and the importance of ultra-sensitive birds and bold birds
in the group. They also mentioned the importance of play in animal intelligence.

Checking Oneirocritica ： The Dream Dictionary and Representational Cognition
 The speaker begins by expressing their thoughts on the concept of a new year and the nonsensical nature of calendars, wishing machines
would explode instead. They argue that the importance of time is subjective and depends on individual experiences, rather than adhering to
a universally accepted calendar. They also discuss the problem of orientation and direction in space where there are no distinguishing
features.

The speaker then delves into the idea of normalcy and how society often determines behavior based on this concept, leading to distress for
those who question their own normality. They propose that we should view continuums instead of black-and-white contrasts when evaluating
ourselves and others.

The topic shifts to predicting future consequences and the limitations of human understanding, as well as how animals use predictive
cognition to survive. The speaker reflects on personal experiences and encounters with illness during the COVID-19 pandemic, expressing
concerns about vaccine safety and the importance of individual context.

They conclude by discussing the dangers of books that declare truths without questioning their validity and the importance of recognizing
the limitations of our understanding. The speaker encourages listeners to be aware of the nature and origins of problems and to understand
their impact on our lives, as well as the potential for growth and learning from ancient texts and wisdom.

Checking Organisms are Modes of Timespace — Intelligent Reambiguation
 In this lengthy monologue, the speaker explores the idea that organisms are a unique mode of time space, creating rare and intricate
temporal structures within the universe. They argue that humans tend to think in flat time, but the reality is that all phenomena,
including organisms, possess distinct world lines and contribute to the creation of new forms of time. The speaker also touches upon the
concept of non-human intelligences and UFOs, suggesting that they may represent complex and ambiguous phenomena that challenge our current
understanding of identity and the universe. They advocate for intelligent reambiguation, which adds bubbles after subtracting some,
allowing us to gain new perspectives and insights rather than collapsing phenomena into preconceived categories.

Checking Organisms, Spiderwebs, Assembly Theory
 The speaker is discussing his observations of a spider kite, which appears to have two webs connected to it, one visible and one
invisible. He is struggling to understand how the spider could have created this situation, as it seems impossible. The speaker then
reflects on the complexity of organisms and the limitations of human understanding. He introduces the concept of an organism's world line,
which includes not only the physical body but also its historical relationships and heredity. He argues that machines do not have the same
kind of world line as organisms because they cannot inherit or participate in the complex relationships and histories that are inherent to
living beings. The speaker then discusses his interest in a new scientific theory called assembly theory, which posits that objects are
fundamental and provides a new definition of objects based on their complexity. He is excited about the potential implications of this
theory for our understanding of the world and the relationship between organisms and machines. Throughout the text, the speaker expresses a
sense of wonder and curiosity about the natural world and a deep respect for the complexity and interconnectedness of living beings.

Checking Orphorea 19： The Precedence of Unity
 The speaker expresses concern about the prevalence of machines in society and the impact they have on human attention and ecological
survivability. They argue that machines are made of parts and serve specific purposes, while living beings and nature do not have parts or
functions in the same way. The speaker criticizes the utilitarian and fictional nature of thinking about things in terms of parts and
functions. They emphasize the importance of understanding the differences between first-order phenomena (unities) and second-order
phenomena (parts), and encourage a shift in perspective to see unity as a primary feature rather than an afterthought. The speaker also
critiques the individualistic and collective thinking in modern culture, arguing that it is based on false assumptions about parts and
functions and leads to harmful outcomes. They call for a rediscovery of the aspects of intelligence that place precedence on unity and
encourage analogies and toys of seeing as tools to help lift us out of the limitations imposed by our current way of thinking.

Checking Ostralis 7 ： SunFather
 This text is a philosophical reflection on the concept of fatherhood, the origin of life, and our relationship with nature and the
universe. The author expresses fear and uncertainty about existence, questioning whether one is willing to be born, come home, or die. They
associate these feelings with the idea of a "father," which they view as a noble and divine spirit that emerges from the indomitable and
victorious disappearance of an individual.

The author argues that our understanding of fatherhood and manhood is not derived from language or concepts but rather from a living
relationship with our origins and reality. They suggest that we are all extensions of various beings, including the sun and nature, and
that our minds shine like a sun within us. The text also touches upon the idea of time and space, suggesting that they are intense and
dangerous, and that life on Earth is a unique phenomenon in the universe.

The author criticizes human culture for being disconnected from our origins and reality, leading to conflicted and unhealthy relationships
with each other and the world. They call for a return to true relation and recognition of our role within the larger tapestry of existence.
The text is rich in metaphorical language and philosophical musings, inviting readers to reflect on their own understanding of existence,
fatherhood, and the nature of reality.

Checking Otopede 11： The Amphitheatre
 The speaker is reflecting on the importance of having a compass in navigating life, both literally and metaphorically. They express
concern about how technology and modern society have disconnected us from our physical surroundings and replaced them with abstract
coordinates. They remind us of the importance of developing an "inner amphitheater" filled with positive influences and encourage us to
reconnect with nature and each other. The speaker emphasizes the need for authentic relationships, growth, and learning in order to find
orientation and meaning in our lives.

Checking Our Hidden Humanity ｜ Interiorty vs Culture
 The speaker reflects on the hidden pain and suffering of people around us, as well as the challenges of sustaining authenticity in a world
dominated by representational products and institutions that often prioritize profit over human development. They discuss how contexts can
either nurture or inhibit our interiority and self-development, and the importance of recognizing the value of both structure and flow in
our lives. The speaker also touches on the idea of a collective unconscious and the need to bring the object child (representing structure)
back into harmony with its origin, the water child (representing flow), for the benefit of individuals and society as a whole. They express
a desire for all human beings to have the opportunity to fully embody their humanity despite the challenges posed by modern culture.

Checking Our Interiority： Beyond Norms and Generalizations
 The speaker is reflecting on the diversity and complexity of life, highlighting the differences between human perspectives and the
realities of plants and animals. They discuss the limitations of language and our understanding of norms, emphasizing the importance of
recognizing the unique aspects of each being or situation. The speaker also touches upon the inner critic and the challenges of determining
what is good or bad in life, as these concepts are often influenced by cultural expectations and individual experiences. Overall, they
encourage embracing the complexity and diversity of life, rather than attempting to impose rigid definitions or norms.

Checking Our Models, Our Experts： Mostly Wrong, Most of the Time
 Darren Stevenson expresses concern about the inadequacy of models and expertise across various fields, including religion, science,
medicine, philosophy, artificial intelligence, and psychology. He argues that these experts are often disconnected from what they're
modeling, leading them to throw away 97% of what is true and focus on a small fraction, which can be misleading. Stevenson emphasizes the
complexity and sophistication of the human mind and the interconnectedness of all things in the universe. He also discusses the problem of
addiction to machines, products, and non-relational ecologies, leading to the destruction of living networks that are irreplaceable. He
concludes by urging people to understand their role in the world beyond collectives and false expertise, focusing on biorelational
excellence rather than opposing technologies and commerce.

Checking Our Myth of the Nuclear Family is Broken
 In this video, Darren Stevenson discusses the idea that Western culture's family structure is toxic and unnatural for human development,
particularly for children. He argues that humans are "pod animals," evolved to live in small, tightly knit groups with strong relational
connections. This was historically seen in communities where multiple mothers raised children together, allowing for shared resources and
support. However, in modern Western culture, families consist of two adults and their children, with each mother expected to provide all
the resources and care for the child alone.

Stevenson criticizes this structure for its unrealistic expectations placed on parents, leading to stress, destruction of relationships,
and a lack of community support. He believes that the state's involvement in enforcing these roles through legal means only adds to the
problem. He also emphasizes the importance of emotional, intellectual, relational, and purposive intelligence for healthy development and
suggests the need for reevaluating our family structures to better support children and adults alike.

Checking Our Nonordinary Faculties ｜ The Undiscovered Country
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on how various structures, such as fountains, contain primordial principles that can teach us
about character, nature, and the world around us. The speaker shares his personal experience of learning balancing skills from a fountain
and how it helped him gain a deeper understanding of the interconnectedness of things. He emphasizes the importance of direct experience
and developing our senses and faculties to unlock hidden potentials within ourselves. The speaker encourages listeners to explore the world
around them, embrace the non-ordinary, and discover their unique roles and paths in life.

Checking Pace and Opportunity： The Disaster of Acceleration
 The speaker argues that our understanding of time is limited and impoverished due to our reliance on mechanical and artificial conceptions
of time. They suggest that by slowing down and observing the world around us at different tempos, we can gain a deeper understanding of
other organisms' temporalities and build meaningful relationships with them. The speaker also discusses the importance of courtship and
task coherence in allowing us to be present and focused in our relationships and pursuits. They argue that modern life's constant
interruptions and distractions hinder our ability to live fully and creatively, and urge us to reclaim our temporal sovereignty. The
speaker also touches upon the impact of technology and the pandemic on our perception of time and space.

Checking Paradise 9： This is all the worlds.
 This text explores the idea that the world around us, particularly nature, is the true spirit world and the only world that matters. The
author argues that our attention is often drawn away from this reality by cultural and societal constructs, including stories, science, and
religion. The text also touches on the concept of reincarnation and suggests that each year of our life can be seen as a complete cycle of
birth, growth, death, and rebirth. The author encourages readers to be present in their own experiences and to see the world around them as
a source of wonder and discovery rather than something abstract or unattainable. The text emphasizes the importance of being aware of our
own existence and the interconnectedness of all living things in the natural world.

Checking Paranormality vs Modernity
 The speaker expresses gratitude to their audience for supporting their work through various means, including Patreon. They discuss the
topic of non-human intelligences and UFOs, noting that disinformation campaigns have led many people to dismiss these topics as laughable.
The speaker argues that there is evidence of non-human intelligences and UFOs, despite efforts to suppress this information. They also
mention the importance of critically examining sources and recognizing the difference between genuine psychic abilities and magicians or
hoaxers.

The speaker shares their perspective on consciousness, time, and reality, emphasizing that human beings have the potential for insight and
transcendence beyond ordinary experiences. They discuss the impact of modern technology and society on our relationship with our natural
environment and inner selves. The speaker also reflects on their own personal growth and struggles with representational cognition, which
they see as a limiting factor in understanding the world and ourselves more deeply.

Throughout the video, the speaker encourages viewers to explore the paranormal and non-ordinary experiences with an open mind and a
critical perspective, recognizing that there are both authentic and fraudulent sources of information in this field. They emphasize the
importance of seeking wisdom and learning together as a community.

Checking Part 1 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 Darren Stevenson began working with the Blackfeet Tribal Business Council in Montana in 1994, helping them stop the proposed Land
Consolidation Act that aimed to take land into trust for mining purposes. He then conducted research on Blackfoot art and inventorying
museum collections of their material culture, including a project to find out where all the Blackfoot items were located in museums around
the world. He sent letters to over 4000 museums, but received no response from some major ones like Harvard's Peabody Museum. Darren
eventually went to the museum and discovered that they had several Blackfoot items on display but hadn't responded to his letter.

He was later able to access their inventory and found that they had a beaver bundle which had been acquired through questionable means,
potentially involving forged documents or selling replicas. The beaver bundle is an embodiment of the original treaty between humans and
animals in Blackfoot culture, dating back thousands of years. It is constantly absorbing new knowledge and experiences from humans and
animals.

Darren's research led to the repatriation of several sacred items to the Blackfeet Nation. The story illustrates the importance of
respecting the relationship between human beings and their cultural heritage as well as the challenges of dealing with questionable
acquisitions in museum collections.

Checking Part 1： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis
 Mark Kevin Charlton Davis grew up with a deep curiosity about African spiritual traditions due to his mother's exposure to Afro-American
politics and her involvement in various spiritual practices, including seances and Haitian priestesses. His father died when he was young,
leaving him with unanswered questions about his identity as an African American man. At the age of nine, Mark was introduced to Jehovah's
Witnesses and became deeply involved in their faith. However, his curiosity about Africa and its spiritual traditions never waned.

When he was 15, Mark began rebelling against the rigid structure of the Jehovah's Witness religion by exploring other cultures and
spiritualities. He designed a necklace with fake sharks teeth and wore African-inspired clothing to school, causing controversy and
attention that he found intriguing. Over time, Mark continued to seek out knowledge about Africa and its people, even though his efforts
were met with resistance from the Jehovah's Witness community.

It wasn't until later in life that Mark was able to travel to Africa and immerse himself in the spiritual traditions he had always been
drawn to. He met Malidoma Somayah, a West African shaman, whose teachings resonated deeply with Mark's experiences and questions. Through
Malidoma, Mark learned about the interconnectedness of all things in nature and the importance of respecting and honoring the natural
world.

Throughout his life, Mark has had various spiritual experiences that have shaped his understanding of the world and his place within it. He
has also faced challenges, such as being disfellowshipped from the Jehovah's Witnesses for having sex outside of marriage and dealing with
the trauma of losing his father at a young age. Despite these challenges, Mark continues to seek out knowledge and understanding, both of
the world around him and within himself.

Checking Part 2 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 In the Blackfoot culture, a bundle is a living embodiment of a treaty between humans and animals. It is a collection of animal skins,
artifacts, songs, and stories passed down through generations. Each animal in the bundle gave its robe as a symbol of protection and shared
its knowledge and experiences with the humans. One of the most significant contributions to the bundle came from Owl Child, who had a dream
of leading his relatives on a successful raid against their opponents, the snake people. However, his relatives started having fearful
dreams and turned back, leaving him on his own. He eventually encountered another man in a cave during a storm and, after communicating
through sign language, realized they were mirroring each other's stories. They formed an alliance and traded lives, wives, and lodges,
creating lasting peace between their tribes. The hoop and arrow game and the owl child scout are part of this story and are still
celebrated in the beaver bundle dances.

Checking Part 2： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis
 In part two of this interview with Mark Kevin Charlton Davis, he shares his experiences leading up to his journey to Africa. Growing up,
he was exposed to various cultures through books and media, particularly African and Native American traditions. He was intrigued but
limited in his understanding due to the Jehovah's Witness environment he grew up in. He was also affected by molestation as a child, which
led him to spend a lot of time on the streets of Los Angeles.

One day, after finishing a painting job and receiving payment, Mark packed all his belongings and came to California to meet Malidoma Somé,
who had inspired him through his books. He was initially disappointed when he couldn't find Malidoma in Los Angeles and ended up staying
with his uncle for a few days before making his way to Oakland. There, he was taken in by the Somé society and eventually met Malidoma.

Malidoma welcomed Mark as an assistant and taught him about various initiations into the elements (fire, water, earth, etc.). Mark shared
that some of these experiences were challenging, such as being baptized by fire, but they ultimately helped him gain a deeper understanding
of himself and the world around him. He also mentioned his experimentation with psychedelic drugs before these initiation experiences.

Mark went on to describe some of the specific initiation ceremonies he underwent, including being buried underground for hours during the
earth ceremony and feeling an expansion of awareness afterward. He also discussed his disillusionment with religion, particularly the
Jehovah's Witness faith he had grown up in, and how these experiences helped him let go of those beliefs. The conversation then took a
brief pause to discuss the concept of appropriation in relation to spiritual traditions.

Throughout this interview, Mark speaks about the profound impact these experiences had on his life, allowing him to connect more deeply
with various cultures and gain a greater understanding of himself and the world around him.

Checking Part 3 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 In this story, a human named White Grass had his wife stolen by beavers. In response, he took their prized albino pup as ransom. The
animals then brought a bundle of seven predators to White Grass in exchange for his wife. However, an old man appeared to White Grass and
revealed that his wife had been taken because she was lonely and bored in the camp, and had been charmed away by a bachelor beaver.

The other animals, recognizing that violence against humans would not go unnoticed, proposed teaching them how to live in harmony with
nature instead of killing them. This approach led to mutual respect between humans and animals, symbolized by White Gras's agreement to
give back the pup and share knowledge with the humans. The Sun and Moon also appeared and added their gifts to the bundle.

The rattlesnake is used as an example in this story to illustrate the importance of the agreement. Rattlesnakes, which are venomous and
have distinctive rattles, alert humans to their presence before biting them. This gives humans a chance to remember to respect the animal
and avoid injury or death. In areas where the agreement is not kept, rattlesnakes may lose their rattles, making it more difficult for
humans to notice them in time.

Checking Part 3： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis
 In this part of the interview, Mark Kevin Charlton Davis shares his experiences in Africa during his first visit, which included attending
a month-long funeral, witnessing animal sacrifices, and encountering crocodiles and lions. He also mentions his fascination with the
housing in Burkina Faso and meeting DDA, Malidoma's little brother.

Mark describes a harrowing experience when they went to visit a shaman in a cave, where he expected to find Contomble but instead felt a
strong lion presence. He also mentions his first encounter with malaria and being flown out to California for treatment. Mark's experiences
during his illness included discovering that he could manipulate the static on TVs and having vivid dreams of moss in the forest.

After Malidoma left, Mark continued to have a complicated relationship with him but eventually started doing his own thing. He joined the
new Black Panther Party in Oakland and went back to Africa with Angela Davis' sister. However, he realized that she had deceived him about
her intentions for coming to America. Despite this, Mark still holds Malidoma in high regard and continues to be drawn to African
spirituality.

Throughout the interview, there are recurring themes of death, illness, and the ancestors. Mark mentions experiencing close encounters with
death and the powers of the dead, as well as the importance of nature in African spirituality. He also discusses his fascination with moss
and the forest, which he feels has prepared him for a deeper understanding of African spirituality.

Checking Part 4 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 In this segment of the conversation, the speaker shares the story of Madge Walters, a Blackfoot woman who collected Blackfoot cultural
artifacts in the 1940s and 50s and ultimately sold her collection to the Denver Art Museum upon her death. The Denver Art Museum then
disseminated her collection to various museums around the world, including Harvard University's Peabody Museum. The speaker explains that
this sale occurred during a time when Indigenous people were economically disadvantaged and felt they had no choice but to sell their
sacred history to colonial institutions for a pittance.

The speaker then discusses his experience trying to obtain information about Blackfoot artifacts in museum collections, including the
beaver bundle he discovered at Harvard. He recounts receiving a call from George Horse Capture, who was concerned about the speaker's
intentions and warned him against disempowering the Blackfoot community. The speaker then received a call from Joyce Spoonhunter, the
Federal Register contact for Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, who invited him to negotiate bringing the beaver
bundle back to the Blackfeet Nation. The speaker did so, with Emery-Victor Howe, Harvard's repatriation liaison, helping him navigate the
process. The segment ends with the speaker describing how Emery coached him on crafting a successful repatriation claim and ultimately
facilitated the transfer of the beaver bundle back to the Blackfeet Nation.

Checking Part 4： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis
 Mark shared stories about his experiences on the land in Africa, which was inhabited by demons. He mentioned encountering a large
poisonous snake called a black mamba and a stick that seemed to stare at him. He also described traditional farming practices, where men
would compete and sing while working, and the importance of rhythm in the jungle. Mark once took his horse out alone at three o'clock in
the morning and encountered a man on a bicycle who appeared to be made of twigs with no lips. He then went to a shaman for treatment but
was given an object that required him to speak in an ancient language to put a chicken to sleep and die. Mark mentioned the conflict
between rationality and mystery in his experiences, and how he eventually lost everything, including the land, when his wife disappeared
with all their money. He got tattoos as part of his initiation into African traditions and learned about the strength and resilience of the
local people.

Checking Part 5 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 In this continuation of the story, the narrator recounts their efforts to repatriate a Blackfoot beaver bundle from Harvard University.
Joyce Spoonhunter, the only person on the federal register who could sign off on the claim, was unwilling to travel to Boston to identify
and sign off on the bundle due to lack of funding from the tribe. The narrator then flew Joyce out to Boston and arranged for her to stay
at their apartment.

At a meeting with museum director Barbara and Anne-Marie Victor Howe, Joyce asserted that the Blackfoot Nation would take back the bundle
by force if Harvard did not comply. Despite the tense beginning, the process continued with the intention of following legal procedures.
The elders arrived in Boston for a tour but were unaware they were there to pick up the bundle.

The narrator rented a van and planned to take the elders to Connecticut before their flights, but they missed him at the airport. When he
finally met up with them, they were already settled in their hotel, and he learned they thought he worked for Harvard. The group went to
pick up the bundle, which was missing the corn husk bag that held the seven rattles. They found the other components of the bundle but
could not locate the bag.

The group visited the exhibit where a fake women's society headdress was displayed and promised not to ask for it in return for the beaver
bundle. They then went looking for the bag in storage, where they discovered it was in a drawer with other corn husk bags that had been
overlooked due to Harvard's categorization system. The elders sang the bundle out of the museum, and Alan became the first person to be
transferred the beaver bundle.

The group spent time enjoying themselves before Carol and Tom had to return to Montana, and the narrator toured them around Boston. Joyce
contacted the narrator later, asking for help in documenting collections on the elders' tour through Washington D.C., New York, and
Chicago. The narrator used their remaining GI bill funds to join the group in Washington D.C. and assist with the documentation.

Checking Part 6 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 The speaker recounts a trip to Washington D.C. where they met with elders and viewed collections at the Smithsonian Museum. They had
previously been mistaken for being from Harvard, despite not actually being affiliated with the university. During this visit, they took
notes and photographs of the collections, but faced resistance from some individuals about using a camera. The group then traveled to New
York City, where they visited museums such as the American Museum of Natural History and the High Foundation for American Indians. They
also attended ceremonies in Alberta, Canada, which were significant moments for the speaker. Frank, one of the elders, made a request for a
transfer of a bundle from the Smithsonian rather than a repatriation, which was successful. The speaker then worked on other repatriations
and eventually began working with the Hoopa tribe in California to help them negotiate with Harvard for the return of their ceremonial
items. They also met and fell in love with Danielle during this time, leading to an elopement. They continued to work on Blackfoot and
Ho-opa repatriations, using their database of museums to help other tribes as well. The speaker lived in New York City for several months
before moving on to other projects. The incident at the Smithsonian involving the recognition of a stone pipe and subsequent blackout was
also mentioned.

Checking Part 7 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 The speaker describes an encounter with a stone pipe artifact at a museum that caused them to feel intense sensations and eventually
experience flu-like symptoms. They recognize the artifact as belonging to the Hoopa tribe, who practice similar cultural complexes as other
nearby tribes despite having different languages. The Hoopa people live in a small valley in northern California and their territory is
connected to the ocean through two other tribes. The speaker shares that men and women lived separately in Hoopa culture until a certain
time during the deer rut, and children born outside of this time were considered illegitimate. The speaker also notes that the Hoopa people
still preserve their traditions and have maintained much of their old way of life, although some important features have gone missing over
time. The speaker expresses gratitude for being able to learn about these stories and the impact they had on their community.

Checking Passages from Sufism and Surrealism (Adonis) pp 134-136
 Adonis' "Sufism and Surrealism" explores the connection between Sufi mysticism and surrealist writing. The text suggests that the
experience of writing is akin to death in the Sufi sense, as writers seek to transcend the external world and delve into the universal
internal world. This involves using metaphorical, figurative language to bridge the gap between the visible and invisible worlds and reveal
the unknown.

Sufi writers aim to discover the universal language that expresses the infinite meaning and finite image. Their writing is intended to
transport readers to the infinite and create a delirium in the language itself. The use of figurative language, metaphor, and imagery
enables someone in the abstract or concealed world to cross over into our world and vice versa.

Figurative language does not establish true relationships between the self and the other, but rather creates figurative connections. Images
are not artificial or technical ways of expression; they burst forth primordially with poetic intuition. The power of the image lies in its
ability to reveal essential origins while remaining beyond tangible reality.

In the Sufi experience, poetry is an inquiry into the essence of man and existence, a desire to change the image of the world, and a
refashioning of man and existence itself. Dreams, vision, shock, and madness are means of expression that help us understand truths that
cannot be grasped logically or rationally.

Figurative images in Sufi literature are organic parts of every macrocosm and not merely isolated elements for embellishment or persuasion.
They originate from the ascending, descending dialectic between God and man and are charged with dreams, irrational elements, and magic.
The unseen is the most profound because it is the origin, and trying to understand the visible world only scratches the surface of reality.

The apparent in figurative language is not what speaks but the inner meaning, and the image is not what writes but rather the meaning. In
the Sufi experience, the writer is the other, and meaning makes them speak and write, while they are the ones being thought about and
written about. Ultimately, form in this context is a structure of relationships between words, and the apparent world is not what speaks,
but the inner meaning.

Checking Passages from Sufism and Surrealism
 In the chapter "The Aesthetic Dimension" of Adonis's book "Adonis, Sufism and Surrealism," the author discusses how the writings of Sufi
poets such as Al-Nafari, Al-Tawwihidi, and Ibn Arabi have influenced Arab poetical writing. According to this school of thought, poetry is
not merely a linguistic tool for decoration but a form of consciousness that transcends language and conveys emotions and meaning. Reality
is seen as more than just external material; it has a broader scope and what lies behind it is part of the same natural world. Truth is
hidden within things and can only be reached with specific knowledge beyond conventional or scientific understanding. Sufi writing aims to
attain the absolute, using myth and symbol to explore deeper meanings and connect the apparent with the concealed, the visible with the
invisible. This form of poetry becomes a way of gaining knowledge through its figurative language and expressions of different levels of
reality.

Checking People and their Animals
 The speaker reflects on their observations of people they encounter regularly at a lake in San Francisco, pondering the depths of
individuals based on their appearances. They acknowledge the fallacy of making assumptions about others based on external factors and the
challenge of truly understanding someone without any concrete evidence or means to test theories. The speaker also discusses the
complexities of human relationships and how they can resemble those between animals, such as the bond between a person and their dog. They
highlight the dangers of superficial judgments, beauty, wealth, and privilege, and the importance of exploring deeper connections with
people and experiences. The speaker expresses hope for creating contexts to learn and grow from these relationships.

Checking Perspective and Perception
 In this lengthy monologue, the speaker reflects on various topics including morphic resonance, language, human evolution, the importance
of the elderly, and the potential danger of advanced technologies. The speaker also shares personal experiences and anecdotes related to
these themes. They express a deep fascination with the mysteries of existence and call for kindness and care towards the elderly, who are
often neglected in society. The speech is characterized by poetic language, philosophical musings, and a sense of wonder and exploration.

Checking Phenological Engagement： Stow Lake Blue Heron Social Tree
 The observer witnessed dominance displays and nest selection processes among Great Blue Herons at Stowe Lake. Males were establishing
hierarchy and defending their chosen nests, engaging in aerial chases and vocalizations. The largest male was making displays to assert his
dominance and size. The bird being chased returned to the tree after two instances of chase but it's unlikely for a third one. There are
eight to nine possible nests in this tree and it has been used as the primary nesting site for over a decade. However, the birds' behavior
is more complex than just dominance establishment and combat displays.

Checking Phenology, Time and Synchronization
 The speaker reflects on their experiences with animals and plants in a botanical garden, emphasizing the interconnectedness of all living
beings and the non-ordinary ways that information and relationships are communicated between them. They discuss the importance of
respecting and being attuned to these relationships and the gifts they offer, as well as the limitations of Western scientific
understanding in capturing their complexity. The speaker also shares a personal story of discovering a newt on the full moon in Katoi and
the significance of this discovery within the context of phenology and indigenous knowledge systems. They critique the reductionist
tendencies of modern science and the importance of recognizing the deep connections between living beings, places, and time.

Checking Phyllia 0⧸1 ： Pollens： The Living Dusts ( Bees ？ Angels )
 The speaker argues that humans are not separate from stars, but rather living expressions of the historical character and present state of
our star and planet. Stars produce various kinds of "dust," including charged particles and thought dust, which contribute to the
development of languages, technologies, and minds. The speaker suggests that there may be multiple orders of dust, with some being dead and
others alive or potentially living. The speaker also emphasizes the importance of recognizing our dependence on the sun for our existence
and the potential for new forms of life, including those without discrete bodies or in collectives. The speaker critiques modern technology
and media for destroying pollens (ideas) and generating compliance and ignorance instead of fostering intelligence and discovery. The
speaker encourages individuals to reconnect with nature and living beings to awaken a deeper understanding and awareness of the world
around them.

Checking Physics as Information  ： The Irony of Science ： Nuclear War
 In this speech, the speaker expresses gratitude for basic aspects of human existence and observes birds in a park. They reflect on the
idea that organisms, including humans, are not merely machines or biological factories with the sole purpose of reproducing, but rather
complex beings with unique traditions and life paths. The speaker criticizes the reductionist view of science, particularly as it relates
to physics, and suggests a more holistic approach that considers the underlying nature of physical phenomena and its implications for
identity, value, function, origin, meaning, and intelligence. They also discuss the importance of understanding the communication aspects
of physics and the potential encrypted nature of scientific discoveries. The speaker urges listeners to recognize the shortcomings of their
nations and civilizations and work towards creating a new way of being human that prioritizes meaningful experiences and living in harmony
with nature.

Checking Physics： The Problem of Function as Identity
 The speaker explores the limitations of human knowledge and understanding in relation to scientific concepts like dark matter, dark
energy, and theories of everything. They argue that our modern way of thinking confuses function with identity, and that physics, while
valuable, does not provide a complete understanding of reality. The speaker also touches on the potential for artificial intelligence and
the importance of recognizing the limitations of our current knowledge and ways of knowing. They advocate for a more humble approach to
understanding the universe and encourage the pursuit of social and ecological intelligence as a means of relating to the world in a more
meaningful way.

Checking Potemkin 19： Identity： Self and Mind
 The speaker is pondering the nature of identity, intelligence, and reality, questioning the limitations of our current concepts and tools
for understanding them. They argue that our minds, souls, or selves did not come into existence as individual entities, but rather emerged
from unities that appear to have distributed bodies. The speaker also wonders about the sources of light in dreams and why we cannot easily
remember their beginnings, suggesting a connection between the operationalization of potentials in human culture and the loss of our early
memories. They propose that the self is a construct, a fiction created by ideas and languages that places precedence on individuality over
unity. The speaker calls for a shift in perspective to recognize the interconnectedness of all beings and the limitations of our current
ways of thinking. They suggest that true understanding lies not in isolation but in unity with other beings and a recognition of the
potentials and relational fluidity of intelligences prior to their operationalization by language and culture.

Checking Precognition
 The speaker shares personal experiences of precognitive dreams and how they came true, leading to discussions about skepticism, believers,
and the role of religion in interpreting such phenomena. They also touch on the concept of minds forming networks and the authentic versus
spurious experiences. Ultimately, the speaker emphasizes that while precognition may be real and natural to humans, it's often confusing
and complicated by societal constructs and individual biases.

Checking Prediction
 The speaker explores the relationship between intellect and insight, highlighting the limited scope of intellect compared to awareness,
insight, and consciousness. They introduce the concepts of authorization trance and sequencing trance as fundamental features in modern
human experiences that resemble the intellect's quest for proof and validation. The speaker argues that our overreliance on intellect can
lead to excluding unknowns and unknowables, which can result in delusion and incorrect assumptions about reality. They also discuss the
evolution of human consciousness, focusing on memory, representation, and prediction as key factors that led to the development of modern
society, with both benefits and drawbacks. The speaker emphasizes the importance of being aware of the limitations of intellect and
preserving unknowns and unknowables to maintain a balanced perspective on reality.

Checking Privacy ： The Disappearing Necessity
 The speaker expresses concern about the disappearance of privacy in modern society due to the rapid advancement of technology and its
manipulation by corporations and governments. They argue that our minds are connected in a network called the cognisium, and our
interactions with machines produce analytics that are captured and used to shape our behavior in ways that are often toxic and parasitic.
The speaker emphasizes the importance of privacy for individual growth and creativity, and warns about the potential consequences of losing
it, including the loss of authentic human experiences and the domination of a few powerful entities. They suggest the development of
altruistic systems to protect privacy and promote intelligent collaboration among individuals.

Checking Prodigy and Context
 The speaker is praising Alexandra Elbakian and SciHub for making scientific papers freely accessible to everyone despite paywalls. They
believe that this access to knowledge is essential in understanding the current crisis situations faced by nations and for the future of
humanity. The speaker expresses their appreciation for Eric Weinstein's podcast, specifically his recognition of Aaron Swartz and his
dream, but they also want to give credit to Alexandra for bringing it to the next level by creating SciHub. They criticize Western
capitalism and educational systems for limiting access to knowledge and potential intelligence within individuals. The speaker also shares
their personal experiences with intelligence and prodigy, and their hope that humanity can recover the capacity to recognize and celebrate
the essential interiority of human beings. They conclude by expressing their hope that SciHub will help us return to experiencing the
"skies of the origins of our minds" together.

Checking Public and Personal Cults are Deadly Fictions
 Darren Stevenson, in this video, expresses his strong opinions about religions and cults, which he believes have had a destructive impact
on the world and nature. He criticizes various religions and spiritual practices, including Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Scientology, and
New Age movements. He argues that while people were focused on their spiritual beliefs, the earth's ecosystems were being destroyed, and
the consequences will be devastating for future generations. He encourages viewers to leave their cults, connect with nature, and take
action to preserve the planet. He emphasizes that humans are animals and reliant on ecosystems and that we need to understand and protect
them instead of destroying them in pursuit of abstract beliefs.

Checking Purpose & Context
 The speaker reflects on the interconnectedness of purpose and context in shaping our identities and experiences as human beings. They
highlight how our often unconscious relationship with purpose can radically alter who we are and what we do, and how context plays a
significant role in this transformation. They use examples from their own experiences, such as observing the behavior of insects in
response to vibrations or encountering a crisis situation that requires a shift in role. The speaker emphasizes the importance of becoming
aware of our underlying purposes and how they influence our actions, relationships, and beliefs. They also reflect on the limitations of
science in understanding the full complexity of reality and encourage deeper reflection and exploration of the human condition.

Checking Purpose and Evolution ： It's Not Competition. It's Uplift
 In this monologue, Darren Stevenson discusses the relationship between human behavior and nature, arguing that humans are in conflict with
the natural world due to our intelligence and representationally sophisticated abilities. He believes that we have been pulling back the
evolutionary momentum of the planet and its inhabitants, using technology and machines to damage the living networks and ecosystems.
Instead, he proposes that we should allow the planet to pulse and raise us up naturally, co-participating with anciently involved
intelligence and learning from it. He encourages listeners to understand the dangers of representation and to leverage it into impossible
evolutionary potentials. Darren also emphasizes the importance of recognizing our interconnectedness with all living beings and the need to
respect and lift each other up in order to become truly intelligent.

Checking Purpose, Courtship, Orgasm
 In this spoken word piece, the speaker reflects on the topics of purpose, desire, romance, sex, love, and courtship from their perspective
as a deeply romantic person. They discuss how our purposes shape our experiences and consciousness, and how we are often unconsciously led
by habits and orientations formed through past experiences. The speaker also explores the idea that when two people are deeply enchanted
with each other but resist the immediate gratifications of sex, courtship can become a profound path with unexpected pleasures and
insights. They encourage listeners to consider the possibilities beyond physical orgasm and the importance of deep reverent courtship in
all areas of life.

Checking Qualia ： 5： Wave, Nucleation, ‘Individuals’
 The speaker is suggesting that wave-particle duality of light can be metaphorically applied to our relationship with consciousness,
identity, and language. They argue that our tendency to fix values, relationships, and identities through analysis for specific purposes
like prosecution is a way of collapsing the wave of possibilities into solid forms, which is limiting and unintelligent. Instead, we could
adopt a more fluid and progressive approach that derives identity and meaning from the process of progress, rather than the purposes of
prosecution or other narrowly defined contexts. The speaker emphasizes the importance of being aware of the impact of our purposes on the
process and the potential for intelligent collapse of identities and values. They also criticize the notion of freezing identities and
applying set frameworks as a useful method in narrowly defined contexts but catastrophic when used as an arbiter of reality or identity in
human beings or relationships. The speaker encourages exploring the mystical traditions that require conscious awareness of how purpose,
intention, and choice of framework determine our relationship with identity and reality.

Checking Qualities ： Scope and Reference
 The speaker explores the complex relationship between qualities, transformations, and the limitations of language and thought in
understanding the world around us. They argue that our thinking is often simplistic and bipolar, reducing complex phenomena to single
points or dimensions, while ignoring the context, relations, and underlying complexity. They suggest that this reductionist approach arises
from our cognitive heritage, which prioritizes control and domination over relationships and embodiment. The speaker also discusses the
issue of more-than-alive beings and non-living entities competing for dominance in human minds and culture, leading to a struggle between
embodied existence and abstract models and theories. They conclude by reflecting on the importance of understanding our history, present
situation, and potentials as human beings and seeking to transform our relationship with the representational cognition that shapes our
modern experience.

Checking Questions and Questing
 In this speech, the speaker reflects on the concept of curiosity and the importance of actively engaging with the world around us rather
than relying solely on our brains and intellect. They argue that our bodies are capable of knowing and sensing things beyond what we can
consciously understand, using the example of a dog's interest in poop as a profound and deeply meaningful activity. The speaker also
discusses the idea of questing, or pursuing something with passion and urgency, and how it relates to our innate desire to unify and deepen
relationships. They encourage listeners to embark on their own personal quests and embrace the unknown, even in small ways. The speech
touches on themes of embodiment, interconnectedness, and the importance of being present and engaged with the world around us.

Checking Questions and Quests
 The speaker reflects on their past mistakes and regrets, particularly those involving harming living beings. They recall their fascination
with the idea of quests and questioning as a means of personal growth and understanding. The speaker shares an experience at a botanical
garden where they observed someone vandalizing a pipevine plant, leading them to reflect on the destructive nature of some human actions
and the importance of respecting living beings. They also discuss their ongoing personal quest to receive a specific kind of gift from the
natural world and the dangers of seeking instant answers or gratification in life's mysteries. The speaker encourages the audience to
embrace the spirit of questioning and embark on their own unique quests for knowledge, understanding, and personal growth.

Checking Reflections and The Material Universe
 The speaker explores the idea that our experiences and memories are reflections of something deeper and transcendental. They use the
example of reflections in water to illustrate how something can appear distinct but is actually part of a larger, interconnected whole.
They also discuss the concept of time as a reflection and how it may be intertwined with the idea of the transcendental. The speaker
reflects on their own insights and encourages the audience to consider the deeper meanings behind our experiences and memories.

Checking Reflections on Dreaming
 The speaker reflects on the topic of dreaming and imagination, discussing the unique nature of each person's dream experience and the
various perspectives and beliefs about dreaming from different cultures. They also touch upon the idea that our waking mind may not fully
capture or remember the true essence of dreams due to their timeless and non-linear qualities. The speaker encourages paying close
attention to one's own dream experiences, as it can transform the way we understand our identity and reality. They also mention various
unusual dream phenomena, such as lucid dreaming, sleep paralysis, out-of-body experiences, and astral travel. The speaker expresses caution
against becoming too enamored with external narratives and encourages preserving the intimately personal aspect of one's own fascination
with dreaming. They conclude by encouraging conversations with the dreaming mind and speaking from the belly to access this consciousness.
Dreaming is likened to a reflection, and the speaker invites readers to connect with the aspect of their human essence involved in dreaming
for its potential benefits to our humanity.

Checking Reflections： Ideas and Suppositions
 The speaker is at a lake, observing the blue herons and their nesting behavior during the new moon. They mention that it might be the
Tsukimi or Blackfoot moon, where raptors and owls begin mating. The speaker is hoping to see the males performing their nests dances. He
also notes that the social tree, which is a fir tree, has recently lost some branches, and wonders if there's any significance to this.

The speaker then mentions an encounter with another observer, who found a dead bird in the street, and wonders if the herons have already
settled into their nests or if it's still too early for competition. He also talks about observing frogs, yellow jackets, and field
crickets (or potato bugs), which he doesn't remember seeing in San Francisco before.

The speaker then reflects on phenology, the study of the cyclical patterns of natural world, and how it relates to the transformations in
relationships and behaviors of plants, animals, insects, and microorganisms over each moon cycle. He mentions his experiences in Golden
Gate Park and how the sand dunes under the soil have influenced the ecosystem there.

The speaker then goes on to discuss consciousness, collective identity, and the problem of culpability, or determining fault or
responsibility for something. He notes that as children, we are socialized into legal systems and institutions that can lead us to
internalize these ideas, which can become confusing and painful for many people. The speaker ends by expressing his hope that humans can
learn to understand and overcome these traps and find liberation and nourishment in their minds and humanity.

Checking Relation(ship) ｜ Living Places
 The speaker is exploring the concept of relationships and their significance in various aspects of life, focusing on the relationship
between humans and nature, specifically in a garden setting. They discuss how plants are in "relational outer space" as they are taken out
of their natural environments and grown in a controlled environment with human intervention. The speaker also mentions observing signs of
animal life, such as scat and nests, to gain insights into the world around them.

They highlight the profound differences between living spaces, like gardens, and non-living spaces, like cities. In gardens, there is a
rich exchange of relationships, memories, and interconnectedness. The speaker emphasizes the importance of paying attention to signs in
nature as they can reveal stories about animals, their health, and their environment that are not readily visible or apparent.

They also discuss the idea that everything has infinite relationships, both internally and externally, and that understanding this concept
can lead to deeper insights and connections with the world around us. The speaker encourages openness to new ways of perceiving reality and
embracing the complexity and interconnectedness of all things.

Checking Remains of a Raptor Kill at SF Botanical Gardens
 The speaker has discovered a kill site in a botanical garden, where a raptor appears to have recently consumed a pigeon based on the
remains of feathers, specifically golden ones. The absence of bones suggests that scavengers may have already removed them. The raptor
seems to have intentionally chosen this location for its meal, as it was previously bare yesterday.

Checking Rememberer
 In this text, the author encourages the reader to reflect on the beauty of life, the interconnectedness of all beings, and the importance
of indirect communication and ambiguity in relationships. The author recalls memories of observing nature, such as the sun, moon, and
birds, and reflects on the qualities associated with masculinity and femininity. They also discuss their experiences with a praying mantis
and how it changed them. Throughout the text, the author emphasizes the importance of trust, understanding, and being open to the unique
qualities of each individual and being. The author concludes by expressing their love for all living beings and encouraging the reader to
remember their connections to each other and the world around them.

Checking Remembering
 The speaker is reflecting on the nature of memory and reality. They describe how they have a strong connection with darkness and
non-conscious experiences, using the metaphor of navigating through their father's house in the dark. They suggest that our everyday
conscious experience is only a small fraction of what truly exists, and that there are deeper dimensions to explore. The speaker encourages
listeners to consider the meaning of realness beyond common conceptions and invites them to join in the exploration of these deeper
mysteries. Throughout the text, the speaker emphasizes the importance of remembering, seeing beyond the ordinary, and embracing the unknown.

Checking Reputation in Relation
 The speaker reflects on the diversity of living beings in the gardens, including a strange sequoia tree that looks like an upside-down
octopus. They express concern about humans cutting down old trees for a greenhouse project and bemoan the destruction of relationships and
interiority in modern civilization. The speaker shares their closest friendships and how they've learned to value creative people,
especially writers and artists. They reflect on the concept of "non-allness" in cognition, encouraging us to avoid thinking of all
instances of a class as the same and instead appreciate the unique qualities of each being. The speaker emphasizes the importance of
empathy, kindness, and understanding towards all living beings.

Checking Resonance
 The speaker is discussing the concept of emanation and resonance, as seen in the reflections on the water. They note that their own
reflection is also present, but cannot be shown in the video. The speaker then repeats the phrase "how I'm going to show you" multiple
times, indicating that they will demonstrate how these concepts work through a series of actions or visuals. However, the text provided
does not actually show any of these demonstrations.

Checking Responding to Failure, Pain and Death
 In this heartfelt monologue, the speaker reflects on the challenges of being human and the importance of loving and caring for all beings,
including small creatures like insects and birds. They discuss the difficulty of helping those in need and the pain of loss when we cannot
save them, even with our best efforts. The speaker also shares their own experiences of feeling helpless and overwhelmed, and the
importance of being gentle with oneself in such moments. They encourage listeners to practice gratitude and find solace in the beauty of
nature, and to reach out for support when needed. The speaker emphasizes that even when we cannot resurrect hope within ourselves, there is
still much we can do to make a difference and bring light into the world.

Checking Ric ： Est
 This poem explores themes of violence, power, and identity. The speaker describes consuming or merging with various destructive elements,
such as bombs and guns, which are personified as entities with their own consciousness and motivations. The speaker seeks to understand and
gain power from these destructive forces, seeing them as sources of salvation and connection. The poem also touches upon the concepts of
labels and social constructs, suggesting a critique of privilege and the complexities of identity. Overall, the poem conveys a sense of
chaos and transformation, with the speaker grappling with the consequences and implications of their actions and desires.

Checking Ryan First Diver - The First Repatriation of a Blackfoot Beaver Bundle
 In this session, the speaker shares his experiences and adventures in helping to repatriate sacred Blackfoot bundles and artifacts from
various museums in the United States and Canada. He starts by explaining that he was initially motivated by a desire to understand the
story behind the objects, which led him to work with tribal members to document inventories of collections held by museums. He then
discusses how he helped negotiate the repatriation of a beaver bundle from Harvard University using the Native American Graves Protection
and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) and working with Joyce Spoonhunter, the federal register for NAGPRA.

He describes the challenges faced during this process, such as finding a bag that was missing from the collection and dealing with
skepticism from museum staff. The speaker also talks about his experiences attending ceremonies with Blackfoot people, including an
invitation to his first ceremony by Alan and Martin, and later invitations to their ceremonies by them. He shares how he learned about the
importance of respecting the sacredness of these objects and the significance of transferring the responsibility of caring for them from
museums back to the community.

The speaker then discusses other repatriations he was involved in, including working with the Hoopa tribe in California and his own
experiences at Harvard and the Smithsonian Museum. He reflects on how these adventures have changed him and the impact they've had on the
communities involved. Overall, this session provides insight into the importance of respecting cultural traditions and practices and the
role that museums and repatriation can play in preserving and honoring Indigenous histories.

Checking SHOUJO： Nature, Ecology, and Omnicide： We Must Intervene, Now
 Darren Stevenson, in this speech, expresses his deep concern for the relationship between humans and other ecologies on Earth. He believes
that humans have a responsibility to intervene when human collectives are harming or destroying ecosystems and animals. He argues that
every living being has the mandate to defend other creatures from torture, killing, or abuse. Stevenson also emphasizes that humans and
other living beings are not separate entities but interconnected parts of one larger organism called Earth. Therefore, the destruction of
an ecology is damaging to all life on Earth, including human beings. He calls for people to step outside of human culture and recover their
"animalian" nature and intelligence to defend other living beings. Stevenson argues that our technology has caused us to lose touch with
our evolutionary potential and urges people to join him in defending ecologies and other living beings. He believes that those who accept
this challenge will discover allies and assets beyond human imagination.

Checking San Francisco： The Ravens Have Changed
 The observer notes an increase in boldness and curiosity among birds in the city, with crows and ravens displaying behaviors like not
fearing human proximity and even removing objects from trash cans. This change in behavior is likely due to humans being less dominant in
the environment and the birds' awareness of environmental shifts. Additionally, there have been observations of unusual songs from certain
bird species during broad daylight and at unconventional times of the year.

Checking Scare the Rectangles II
 In this response, the speaker explores the themes of conflict between different aspects of the human brain and culture, specifically the
left hemisphere's dominance over narrative and language versus the right hemisphere's awareness of symbiosis and direct experience with
nature. They also discuss the dangers of cultural delusions and the importance of direct contact with nature for growth and understanding.

The speaker touches on the concept of trance, both in the form of hypnosis and more natural states of absorption, and contrasts this with
meditation as a means of achieving inner silence and non-doing. They also examine the influence of frames and rectangles in our culture,
which can induce trance-like states and deliver cultural content, often containing delusions and misconceptions about reality.

The speaker shares their personal experience of discovering the power of nature through a deep connection with water and the natural world,
and encourages readers to explore their own relationships with living beings and the environment in order to access the profound relational
potentials that are part of our human heritage. They also highlight the importance of recognizing and valuing the wisdom of all living
beings, including insects like the gonon flower mantis, which can deal adeptly with much larger forces through natural instincts and
adaptations.

The speaker concludes by emphasizing that size does not determine capacity and encourages readers to embrace the fire of learning and the
transformative potential it holds for our lives. They also remind us that nature is a source of wonder, dreaming, and intimacy, and invite
us to join in the ongoing process of transforming our relationship with culture, nature, and living beings.

Checking Scare the Rectangles III
 In this speech, the speaker explores the idea that our modern culture is dominated by rectangular shapes, which act as induction triggers
for a trance-like state. The speaker argues that we are constantly bombarded by rectangles in various forms, from screens and buildings to
packages and money. These rectangles authorize and legitimize the content they carry, often manipulating us into following their agendas.

The speaker suggests that we can resist this induction by recognizing the power of the rectangle and observing the content it carries
critically. They encourage us to question the messages being delivered and not go with the flow blindly. The speaker also encourages us to
find intimacy with nature, which can help us rediscover our relational selves and deepen our understanding of ourselves and the world
around us.

The speaker also discusses the concept of liquid sentience, a state of constant learning and immersion in relation. They argue that this is
our natural state but one that we often lose touch with in our technological cultures. The speaker encourages us to engage with experiences
like watching the reflections on water or gazing at the night sky to rediscover this fluid learning process.

Throughout the speech, the speaker highlights the importance of recognizing and challenging the substitutions made by our culture and
instead focusing on deepening our relationship with the natural world and ourselves.

Checking Scare the Rectangles
 In this text, the speaker explores the idea that our modern culture and its ubiquitous use of rectangular shapes act as an induction
device for trances, often replacing more profound experiences of connection with nature and other living beings. The speaker suggests that
while rectangles deliver specific forms of content and induce a particular kind of trance, our natural ability to enter deeper trances
through experiences like being in nature or looking into the eyes of animals is broader and more transformative. The speaker encourages us
to be aware of the power of rectangles and the potential loss of deeper experiences they may bring.

Checking Science and Abstraction
 In this speech, the speaker expresses their concerns about modern society and the impact of habits and ways of thinking on individuals and
human connection. They highlight the importance of understanding the dangers and opportunities presented by our habits and proclivities.
The speaker then discusses the various ways of knowing, focusing on science and its relationship with abstraction and derivation. They
argue that while scientific ways of knowing are powerful, they can be compromised when captured by institutional imperatives. The speaker
also emphasizes the importance of abstraction in science, which allows for useful limitations of scope and the production of efficacious
subsets. Finally, they acknowledge the importance of science as a way of producing insights that are otherwise impossible but stress the
need to approach it with a critical perspective.

Checking Science or Religion？ Both and Neither： Go Beyond
 In this speech, Darren Stevenson argues that both religion and science are ways of knowing and understanding the world, but they have
different purposes and limitations. He asserts that there is no such thing as religion or science itself, only people practicing religious
or scientific principles. He criticizes religion for painting the earth as a bad place and discouraging attention to nature, while accusing
science of prioritizing data over experience and causing harm to the natural world. He encourages individuals to look beyond both religion
and science and seek a deeper understanding of reality through personal experiences and learning from nature. Stevenson also challenges the
idea that God writes books or that the universe is a computer simulation, arguing that these ideas are not based in reality. Ultimately, he
invites listeners to question authority and seek their own path to knowledge and understanding.

Checking Scrub Jay Caching Nuts
 It appears that the text consists of emojis and letters, forming what seems to be a greeting or expression from a user named "Marcus." The
message can be broken down into several parts:

1. The first part is a series of emojis that represent various facial expressions, such as laughing, surprised, or happy. It reads as
follows: Ḹᵗᵍᶅᶜᶉ ʷᵅᵉᶜ ᶕᶌᵒᶉᶉ ᵔʷ Hʷᴬʸ .
2. The next part is "Marcus" introducing himself: ᶰᶘᵏ ʸᶱᶉᶠᶊᶏ ʷᶇʷ ᶠ Marcus. This can be read as "Looking at you, it's Marcus."
3. The last part is a series of empty boxes or unreadable characters represented by the symbol "ლ". It appears to be a repeated pattern and
might indicate that Marcus intended to continue writing but encountered an issue with the text input.

In summary, Marcus greeted someone with a series of emojis representing various facial expressions, introduced himself as "Marcus," and
seemed to have encountered issues when trying to write further in his message.

Checking Seekers & Vehicles
 The speaker reflects on the limitations of cameras compared to human eyes and how technologies evolve based on consumer preferences. They
also discuss the idea of changing courses in life and the importance of intimacy over abstract knowledge. The speaker shares their personal
experiences with various "vehicles" or belief systems they've explored throughout their life, emphasizing the need to understand the
limitations of these frameworks and the importance of developing a deep, experiential understanding of life and the world around us. They
also caution against addictive, malignant ideas that don't lead to substantive development and call for creating open source contexts for
learning together as humans. The speaker concludes by emphasizing the need to develop societies intelligent enough to survive physical
technologies and the importance of trustworthy relationships and frameworks in our personal and societal growth.

Checking Sheep ： Technology ： Intelligence ... Beyond 'Browsing'
 The speaker expresses concerns about the impact of technology, particularly the internet, on human intelligence and relationships. They
argue that our current use of technology is making us less intelligent while corporations like Google and Facebook are profiting from our
attentional intelligence. The speaker suggests that we should be using the internet as an extension of our minds rather than a flat,
tokenized way to search for information. They propose a new kind of browser that uses metaphors and dimensions to navigate through data,
allowing users to explore and learn in a more dynamic and insightful way. The speaker believes this approach will help us avoid becoming
"sheep" and instead use technology to radically alter and resolve unthinkable problems. They also advocate for owning and controlling our
own intelligence databases rather than giving them to corporations.

Checking Silverine - first take
 The person is sharing that they have written only one piano composition in their life and despite not having practiced it for a long time,
they are going to try playing it. They acknowledge that they made some mistakes while playing.

Checking Silverine - second take
 The person is attempting to play a piano piece they wrote and haven't played for twenty years. They are making their second attempt at
practicing the piece.

Checking Sketching The Knowledge Amp： A Mutual Intelligence Synthesis Engine
 Darren Stevenson presented an idea for a revolutionary technology called "Knowledge Amp," which aims to give ordinary people the ability
to collectively magnify their intelligence when interacting with electronic information on the internet. He criticized the current state of
the internet, where large corporations like Facebook, Google, and Twitter benefit from user interactions by generating new forms of
intelligence for themselves.

Stevenson proposed building a new browser that learns how individuals learn and adapts to their search queries, allowing users to explore
ideas metaphorically instead of relying on flat results. He also introduced the concept of a personal intelligence amplifier, which learns
from a user's activities and assists them in expanding their knowledge.

Additionally, he discussed the importance of social networking, where individuals control their data and benefit from it, and a bedding
sentinel that allows users to analyze data for trustworthiness and authenticity. Lastly, he mentioned forming teams with heroic identities
based on the roles individuals play in creating new forms of intelligence.

The overall goal is to create a more intelligent, truthful, and trustworthy internet experience where users can collaboratively learn,
solve problems, and transform human cultures.

Checking Sol Invictus： The Moon ： Cain and Abel. Slayer and Mist.
 Darren Stevenson shares his personal fascination with snakes and the role they play in various creation stories from different cultures.
He also discusses his unique relationship with snakes since childhood and how they have influenced his perspectives on life and
intelligence. Darren believes that wave seeds or gifts, which keep giving, are exchanged between individuals, forming a connection akin to
an entrance-ing penis or a shepherd's co-empedition with the mothers of all beings. He emphasizes the importance of understanding these
stories and their underlying themes to solve current problems and live intelligently. Darren encourages learning together, working for each
other, and respecting one another's delicate gender natures.

Checking SpaceTime and QFT ⧸ Networks of Minds and Worlds
 The speaker is reflecting on the nature of reality, specifically the differences between the theories of relativity and quantum mechanics,
and the implications of these theories for our understanding of the universe. They express concern that science's focus on objectivity and
physicalism may lead to a narrow and incomplete view of reality, ignoring the transcendental relationships between intelligences and
beings. The speaker suggests that the universe is more like a being than a machine and advocates for a more holistic approach to
understanding reality, incorporating both scientific and mythic consciousness. They also caution against the potential dangers of
misapplying scientific findings and technologies.

Checking Stairs Like Seven Years
 This passage is a poetic exploration of the complexities and mysteries of existence, using metaphors and imagery to convey feelings of
wonder, confusion, and sadness. The author compares music to stares that last for seven years, and the act of listening to it to observing
colored fish in the rain. The text also features vivid descriptions of animals with disconnected limbs and floating body parts, as well as
references to Africa's history and the flawed nature of language and mercy. The passage concludes by reflecting on the impermanence of life
and the idea that even those not yet born have existed in some way within the vastness of time and mystery. Overall, the text is an
introspective and thought-provoking meditation on the complexities of existence.

Checking Story Time With Edawg - Boogie Boarding Vision Check
 The speaker shares a story about his experience as an 8-year-old boy who went on a family beach trip and learned how to boogie board. He
became determined to master the sport and followed what he believed was his sister out to sea to learn from her. However, it turned out
that he had mistakenly followed a duck instead. The moral of the story is to make sure children have their vision checked before taking
them in public places.

Checking Structure and Violation
 The speaker is reflecting on the impact of music on their life, specifically mentioning the song "Window" by Big Man. They have a strong
resistance to popular music and rap, but were captivated by the unique vocal techniques in "Window." The song violated their expectations
and got past their guard, making them want to listen to it repeatedly. They also reflect on the theme of violation and transformation,
using examples from literature and personal experiences. They encourage listeners to remember experiences or people who have significantly
impacted their lives and emphasize the importance of creativity and play in adult life.

Checking Synchrony： The Relativity of Feedback
 The speaker discusses the importance of synchronization and feedback in human experiences, consciousness, and intelligence.
Synchronization allows us to hand off some tasks to our subconscious mind or body, while desynchronization can lead to confusion,
disorientation, and desynchronized mental and metabolic experiences. Feedback is an essential aspect of consciousness and can be seen in
paradoxes like the Russellian paradox. The speaker also emphasizes the role of feedback in language, music, sexual relationships, and even
human conflicts in the digital age.

Checking Tai Chi ： Encryption ： Lensing
 The speaker discusses the importance of practicing one's skills and passions, even if there is no easily accessible context in which to do
so. They use Tai Chi as an example of a practice that originated from a tribal context but can be adapted and practiced alone or in a
communal setting. The outer form of Tai Chi is its choreography, while the inner form is secret and requires visualization skills and
imagining internal movements. Tai Chi has both health benefits and martial arts applications, but the inner teachings are difficult to
access and require dedication and a good teacher. The speaker also touches on the idea that nature encrypts intelligence to prevent
weaponization and that various art forms can serve as lenses to decrypt and understand the world in new ways.

Checking Taking the Dream Down： Three(+) Faces of the Dream Assassin
 The speaker discusses their experiences with dreaming and the appearance of adversaries in their dreams, which they came to understand as
a function of the waking mind trying to end the dream cycle. They also reflect on how certain facets of the waking mind can dominate our
humanity in waking consciousness, leading to pathological behaviors or states. The speaker then introduces the concept of the Dream
Assassin and its potential manifestations in both dreaming and waking life, as well as the possibility of a mode of the Dream Assassin that
cuts through the egoic dream rather than destroying the self or the world. They express their excitement about this idea but also
acknowledge the danger of becoming attached to their ideas and the trap of intellect and conception. The speaker invites recommendations on
how to be liberated from this trap and concludes by reflecting on the importance of understanding the origins and natures of the processes
that dominate our lives in order to have a chance to establish something new.

Checking Talk to a Live Human Soul： $0.01
 In this science fiction scenario, humanity has advanced technologically, but people have become so engrossed in their electronic devices
that they've lost touch with reality. The story imagines a society where people wear suits that project holograms and are more interested
in their gadgets than interacting with real human beings. A person who can speak about the origins of language, science, and the mysteries
of life is hidden away in a box labeled "talk with a real human person" for just one penny. However, children, not yet fully enculturated
into this overlay, are intrigued by this offer and may experience something new and valuable through interacting with this person. The
scenario highlights the irony that despite technology's advancements, true human connection and communication have become less valued and
rare in this future world.

Checking Tangent π ： Problems and frameworks
 The speaker is discussing the challenges in cultures and how technology is not helping to resolve these issues but rather exacerbating
them. They mention the chaos and confusion caused by various fictional movements and the need for effective problem-solving. The speaker
introduces the concept of small, tightly knit groups coming together to focus on specific urgent problems, drawing from myths and superhero
stories as examples. These groups have unique skills and a shared purpose, allowing them to invest their attention and intelligence in
unique ways to solve root problems. However, the speaker argues that we are heavily invested in fictions and don't take the simple step of
assembling small groups of experts with complementary skills to resolve conflicts and focus on authentic purposes. The failure to do so is
the root cause of many problems and the loss of degrees of freedom and potential development. The speaker urges us to learn from this and
become part of the solution rather than remaining passive recipients or active participants in schemes that rob us of our liberty.

Checking Temporal Intervals - Short⧸Long Conflict and Processing
 The speaker explores the concept of time and its relationship with consciousness, technology, and human behavior. They argue that time is
not a unitary linear property but rather a complex expression of different modes experienced by distinct organisms, including humans. The
speaker highlights how technology has collapsed the liberty, health, and survivability of many organisms, leading to a race to the bottom
in terms of technological development and ethical considerations. They also discuss the polarization of short-term benefit or goal versus
long-term benefit or goal, and the compression or extension of time in various contexts, including crime and punishment. The speaker
reflects on their own experiences with anomalies and the importance of dreaming, diversity, and long-term thinking in understanding our
world and ourselves. They emphasize the need to remember together and find solutions that value both local and distributed perspectives on
time.

Checking Temporalizing： Our ‘Activities’ Create (and Enact) Time-Forms
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on the nature of time and how our behaviors and activities create unique forms of it. They argue
that many people, especially in modern society, spend a lot of their time engaged in dead or meaningless activities, leading to feelings of
stress, isolation, and unhappiness. However, when we are fully present and engaged in meaningful experiences, time can be transformative
and nourishing. The speaker also touches on the importance of active sensing, or being fully aware and alert in dangerous or challenging
situations, which can lead to a deep awakening of our senses and a transformation of our relationship with time. Throughout the monologue,
the speaker encourages listeners to reflect on their own experiences of time and seek out opportunities for meaningful engagement and
adventure.

Checking Thanksgiving Aftermath： The Carnival of Projections and Concepts
 The speaker reflects on a dream they had about a child who could capture and paint with golden sunlight using a special herb. They discuss
the automatic selection of video formats by their iPhone in different lighting conditions and the controversy surrounding holidays. The
speaker expresses caution towards controversies and manipulation through language, noting that humans are complex and our representational
cognition is unique to each individual. They share an observation from a conversation about why people speak, often for approval or to
signal hierarchical membership rather than to be intelligent or learn. The speaker also mentions the influence of social media on behavior
and the dangers of us-versus-them thinking, emphasizing the importance of self-awareness in navigating communications. They conclude by
reflecting on the deeper connection to all living beings and the potential for true commonality through understanding the politics of light
and relation.

Checking The  Point of No Return.
 The speaker expresses concern about the current state of the world and the potential for end game scenarios, including the extinction of
the biosphere and human societies. They note that first moves matter in conflict situations and that large players are likely to sequester
and destroy resources to ensure they are not available to competitors. The speaker also mentions the importance of remaining aware of
common features of conflict contexts, such as the hyperbolization of class distinctions and the destruction of ecological resources. They
emphasize the need for individuals and groups to acquire meaningful roles and relationships in the face of end game scenarios, and the
potential for turning technologies away from end game and toward intelligent, heartful collectivity. The speaker expresses a deep
appreciation for living beings, living places, and the anciently conserved ecologies, but notes that the human capacity to manipulate
language and concepts can be weaponized against everything and everyone. They express concern about the lack of authentic human collectives
and the inability of institutions and corporations to change course or feel risk. The speaker also touches on the importance of forming
strong, intelligent, mutually supportive groups in times of crisis and the need for healers rather than combatants. Overall, the tone is
reflective and concerned, with a focus on the potential for meaningful action in the face of end game scenarios.

Checking The 'Travelling Body' ： Earth is a »Vehicle ： Here to Go
 The speaker is at a social pond in a botanical garden and is observing the water surface, which is mirroring trees with complex wave
patterns. They are struck by the profound nature of the experience and how it suggests a hidden dimension of movement orthogonal to their
visual senses. However, they are distracted by some crows flying overhead and their calls transforming in pitch as they fly away. The
speaker muses about the protective nature of the social pond and recalls an incident where they heard what sounded like a coyote attacking
a duck at night. They reflect on the concept that perhaps unobserved phenomena, such as a reflection or the sound of a forest without
humans, exist only in our imagination or speculation. The speaker then shifts to discussing ancient peoples who had sophisticated
traditional knowledge systems and were aware of the relational nature of their surroundings. They suggest that these ancient peoples knew
something about the relationship between consciousness, time, space, and the natural environment, which allowed them to produce certain
flowers (or experiences) that attracted specific pollinators (or relationships). The speaker argues that modern civilization has weaponized
this process by creating false masculine aspects that amputate these flowers and produce substitutes that can be extracted and commodified.
They conclude by reflecting on the metaphor of humans as beings meant for travel within the body-mind, and invite the listener to join them
in exploring deeper awareness and understanding of their innate potentials as human beings.

Checking The 10 Most Crucial Issues Facing Modern Humanity
 In this speech, Darren Stevenson discusses the issues facing civilization and the difference between what we pay attention to and what we
should be paying attention to if our species were truly intelligent. He argues that intelligence is not just about being able to represent
things in language or produce advanced technologies, but also involves understanding relationships, context, and meanings. He criticizes
the left hemisphere model of thinking, which focuses on descriptions, functions, and models, while ignoring relational and contextual
aspects. He believes that our species has failed in every domain when it comes to measuring intelligence and argues that we need to broaden
our perspective to include a more holistic understanding of intelligence. Stevenson also touches upon the issues of human population
growth, war, disease, object proliferation, and the consequences of ignoring anomalies and getting the wrong idea about what the problems
are. He suggests that by recognizing the true nature of our relationships with ecology and understanding the potentials of human
intelligence, we can begin to make a positive change in the world.

Checking The 1st Winter Moon⧸Memory⧸Routes
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on the significance of memory and its connection to the natural world, specifically in relation to
the changing seasons and the moon cycle. They discuss how our modern calendar systems misframe important cycles of change and
transformation that occur within nature and highlight the importance of paying attention to lunar time and the living news it provides. The
speaker also shares a story from Arthurian legends about the oak night and holly night, representing the oak tree and its preservation in
the holly tree during winter. They further discuss memory as the connective tissue of our minds and the importance of dreaming for
maintaining the connections between concepts and experiences. The speaker also touches upon the role of routes in memory retrieval and the
importance of taking a softer approach when trying to remember something rather than doubling down on an effort. Overall, the monologue
emphasizes the importance of memory, both personal and collective, in understanding and connecting with the natural world and our own
identities.

Checking The 2nd Winter Moon Cycle： Thoughts on Covid-19, Vaccination, VAERS, and Related Topics
 In this video, the speaker reflects on the harsh realities of winter and the importance of human connection during difficult times. They
share a personal experience of feeling deep kindness and friendship in a cold Italian neighborhood during their travels. The speaker also
discusses the challenges of navigating truth and information in today's society and expresses concerns about vaccines and modern
institutions. They question the safety and transparency of data surrounding vaccine efficacy and potential long-term effects on human
health. The video concludes with a reminder to take care of each other, learn together, and transform societies for a better future.

Checking The Aliens We Became
 The speaker is reflecting on the importance of companionship with other living beings and how it enriches human existence. They share
experiences of forming connections with animals and plants, emphasizing that humans have a unique ability to extend ourselves into other
universes of life through these relationships. The speaker argues against dismissing the human role as stewards or shepherds of life,
instead recognizing our influence on all living beings and encouraging deep, intimate relationships. They reflect on personal experiences
with squirrels, birds, plants, and insects, emphasizing the transformative nature of these connections. The speaker encourages listeners to
seek out such relationships for themselves and reminds us that we are each other's bodies and families in a fundamental way, sharing
origins and lineages throughout history.

Checking The Anciently Conserved Ecologies
 The speaker expresses their awe at the richness of life in the present location compared to where they usually live, acknowledging the
ongoing destruction of anciently conserved ecologies due to human activities. They discuss the concept of living worlds and the rarity of
complex organisms like humans. The speaker reflects on Earth's history, which has been marked by frequent extinctions and catastrophic
events. They highlight the importance of preserving and valuing nature, emphasizing its complexity and uniqueness. The speaker shares their
fascination with insects and animals, which they believe teach us about our own minds and cognition. They conclude by expressing gratitude
for the present moment and the opportunity to learn and grow together.

Checking The Angry Bumblebee ｜ Silence ｜ Carried to Nectar
 The speaker describes an unusual experience of darkness and silence in San Francisco, which caused cognitive dissonance and made him
reflect on the importance of understanding silence and ambiguity. He shares a story about encountering an aggressive bumblebee while trying
to help it, and how he learned to read the bee's signals instead of fighting it. The speaker also reflects on the human tendency to fight
rather than embrace ambiguity and new experiences, and encourages people to learn from nature by participating in it and forming deep
connections with other beings. He emphasizes the importance of kindness and mindfulness in our interactions with the world around us, and
the potential for unlocking deeper insights and understanding through communion with the natural world.

Checking The Beetle that Runs...
 It seems like you are quoting or referring to something in a language other than English, possibly Georgian or Tamil. The quote appears to
be expressing that "thané" (Georgian for "he" or "they") is an experienced person from the village "ლღზგჟ჻ისმს" (I cannot accurately
translate this as I am not certain of the exact Georgian characters used). It's important to note that without additional context, it's
impossible for me to provide a comprehensive summary or accurate translation.

Checking The Big Deception： What they never taught you about the dangers of language (2)
 In this spoken text, the speaker reflects on the deceptive nature of language and knowledge, using the example of two plants, California
sagebrush, to illustrate how instances of a class are distinct but also transform based on their circumstances. The speaker argues that our
relationships with language and knowledge are deceptive in several ways, including collectivity, representation, and generalization. They
call out the dangers of using language to make sweeping generalizations about complex phenomena, such as the novel coronavirus or human
behavior. The speaker also touches upon the importance of understanding the context and complexity of things, as well as the limitations of
our knowledge and understanding. Throughout the text, there is a call to be conscious of these issues and to learn together in order to
interact intelligently with the world around us.

Checking The Big Deception： What they never taught you about the dangers of language
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on various topics including the impact of machines on our lives, abstractions in language, and the
complexity of phenomena. He discusses how we use language to manipulate abstractions and form generalizations, but these abstractions can
often mislead us into thinking we understand complex situations when in reality, our grasp is limited. The speaker also touches upon the
current global situation with the coronavirus, emphasizing that it is an unimaginably sophisticated phenomenon with trillions of variables
and that making overly simplified generalizations about it can be dangerous. He encourages people to rely on experts and actual data
instead of intuition or personal opinions when dealing with complex issues. The speaker concludes by encouraging listeners to be aware of
the limitations of their understanding and to recognize the unique nature of individual instances within larger classes or categories.

Checking The Big Questions II： Who Is Asking？
 The speaker reflects on the profound nature of questioning and the origins of our understanding of the world around us. He discusses how
human representation and language can limit our perspective, leading to a kind of forgetting of the mystery and beauty of existence. He
introduces the concept of "metalogs," which are reflections in form and matter of more fundamental metastuff in the world of origin. The
speaker encourages questioning the origins of questions themselves and the passionate urgency behind our desire to understand the great
mysteries of being. He also touches upon the idea that minds might be reflections of something beyond our own understanding, and invites
listeners to explore these ideas further.

Checking The Bird in the Mirror ｜ When consciousness and reflection collide.
 The speaker discussed their conversation with their father about a male bird's behavior near a window and how it relates to the
complexities of understanding qualities and categories, particularly when it comes to animal behavior. They also touched on the concept of
self-awareness in animals and how our perception of reality can be influenced by our experiences and consciousness. The speaker reflected
on their own memories and how they are not always reliable indicators of what actually happened, leading to potential confusion between
actual experiences and imagined ones. They ended by sharing a personal experience of hypnotizing themselves and having vivid dreams that
were mistakenly remembered as real experiences. Throughout the speech, the speaker emphasized the importance of being aware of the
reflective qualities of consciousness and the potential dangers of getting lost in our own minds.

Checking The Blind One ｜ The One Who Sees
 The speaker reflects on the ambiguity and instability in modern life, comparing it to fog that obscures our understanding of the world
around us. They argue that we have become overly reliant on representations, or symbolic constructs, rather than meaningful relationships
and experiences. The speaker urges people to move away from these representations, which they describe as malware and fictions, towards
deeper connections with each other and the world. They suggest developing new senses that don't depend on representation and recognizing
the importance of purpose in making sense of our surroundings. Ultimately, the speaker encourages people to value relationships over
representations and embrace the transformative potential of ambiguity.

Checking The Camera ⧸ The Eye ⧸ The Soul
 The speaker expresses their disappointment with how technology, particularly cameras, fail to capture the richness of experiences in the
natural world. They reflect on the limitations of language in conveying deeper meanings and question the existence of a soul or spirit. The
speaker shares their personal experience of encountering non-human intelligences that expanded their understanding of life, the universe,
and the nature of consciousness. They criticize modern technology for distracting attention and dulling curiosity, while expressing longing
for deeper relationships with living beings and the natural world.

Checking The Conversation
 In this conversation, two individuals discuss their experiences with non-human intelligences and the implications of such encounters for
human consciousness and existence. They touch upon various topics including the limitations of human knowledge and understanding, the role
of memory and identity, the potential dangers of seeking out transcendental experiences, and the usefulness of different disciplines in
preparing for such encounters. The individuals share their personal perspectives and insights from their own experiences, emphasizing the
importance of self-discipline, consent, and careful intelligence when engaging with non-human intelligences. They also discuss the idea
that the thing one is seeking may be the very thing that seeks them, and the potential benefits of physical disciplines, meditation
traditions, and cognitive disciplines in preparing for such experiences. The conversation concludes with a recognition of the need for
caution and a decision to continue exploring this topic together while being mindful of potential risks.

Checking The ElectroSphere： On the Dangers of the Boxes in our Hands
 The speaker shares their experiences of growing up fascinated by technology and science fiction, but becoming increasingly concerned about
the impact of computers and smartphones on human relationships, consciousness, and health. They reflect on how society has prioritized
convenience over intelligence, humanity, and memory, leading to a loss of faculties and a transformation into "homo technologicus." The
speaker advocates for a future where technology serves humans rather than the other way around, and warns of an impending apocalypse if we
do not take action. They also mention their own model for creating a society that preserves human potential and intelligence, called the
Intelligent Sam.

Checking The Eviction of Dreaming ： Recovery as Hypno-(x)ia
 The speaker reflects on the beauty of nature and how it resonates with the spirit, expressing a belief that the slow suffocation of
creativity in childhood is a significant trauma. They discuss the difference between the dreaming mind and the waking mind, with the
dreaming mind being more relational and participatory while the waking mind tends to collapse and categorize experiences. The speaker
suggests that magic, art, play, and wonder are dimensions of experience that bring meaning and vitality back into our lives. They also
ponder the role of shamans and their ability to traverse the liminal phases between waking and sleeping, speculating that they may be
developing unique faculties in these transitional states. The speaker encourages bringing the dreaming mind back into our waking experience
and emphasizes the importance of retaining a sense of play to avoid autophagy.

Checking The Evolution of Consciousness⧸Ways of Knowing
 The text discusses the author's fascination with two domains of learning: the evolution of human consciousness and ways of knowing. The
author believes that humans have had complex relationships with the natural world, including animals, and that our ancestors were aware of
non-physical forces and had reverence for them. The text also touches on the dangers of modern technology and science, and how they could
potentially lead to the destruction of life on earth. Additionally, the author expresses a desire to understand the origins of human
consciousness, emotions, and the soul of the world. Overall, the text reflects on the complexity of human consciousness and the importance
of seeking knowledge and understanding.

Checking The Fake Imperatives ｜ Retrieve the Commons
 The speaker is reflecting on a recent experience of witnessing a thunderstorm and being reminded of the power and interconnectedness of
nature, contrasted with the human-made structures and representations that often dominate our lives. They argue that these structures have
become omnicidal, consuming everything in their path, and call for a return to active sensing, being present, and learning how to form
coherent groups capable of being humane and intelligent. The speaker also touches on the importance of understanding the role of
representations in human experience and the need to retrieve the commons from disembodied constructs like markets and commodities. They
emphasize the need for both structure and unrepresented aspects, and suggest that we can out-compete these frameworks by creating something
beautiful, noble, virtuous, and liberating that draws people in. The speaker recognizes the challenges of enacting change on larger scales
but remains optimistic about the potential for small-scale efforts to make a difference. They also touch on the importance of understanding
the ancient stories that encode valuable parables about our humanity and the dangers of representation and knowledge.

Checking The Falcon in The Barrel
 The speaker shares a personal story about an encounter with a young hawk that was trapped and drowned in a barrel due to its inability to
grasp and fly at the same time. This experience is used as a metaphor for the struggle between intellect and insight, with humans being
compared to the young hawk who are good at grasping abstractions but have yet to learn how to fly with insight. The speaker reflects on the
importance of paying attention to nature and learning from it, and encourages the audience to continue their quests for understanding and
insight. The story is also a reminder of the potential tragedy of remaining trapped in our own grasping intellect and losing sight of our
original nature.

Checking The First Plane Just Hit the Tower： Misdirection and the Predicament of the Common People
 The speaker is expressing their excitement about topics discussed in Eric Weinstein and Anna Hakian's podcast, where they talk about
complex issues that cannot be easily disambiguated or understood in a black-and-white manner. They praise the duo for their sophisticated
understanding of human complexity and ability to navigate ambiguity. The speaker also touches upon the importance of building a community
of intelligent individuals who can work together to navigate crises, such as the ongoing pandemic. They criticize the common people for
being unequipped to disambiguate information in our highly technological context and being influenced by malware-like perspectives. The
speaker also mentions the collapse of modern civilization and the need for forming small cooperatives to guide the common people through
this crisis. They express concern about the impact of technology on ecologies and human relationships, and emphasize the importance of
preserving relational integrity and mutual engagement for noble purposes. The speaker concludes by expressing their hope that there is a
cohort of intelligent, highly motivated individuals who will seize the opportunity to produce something valuable in this time of crisis and
embrace the essence of humanity.

Checking The First Thing
 The speaker reflects on the diversity of bird songs they have been hearing in their garden during the pandemic, and how it reminds them of
the importance of imagination and curiosity. They discuss the role of imagination in science and understanding the world around us, as well
as the limitations of language and our categorization of reality. The speaker also touches upon the idea that there may be forms of
intelligence beyond what we currently understand, and the need to maintain an open mind and imagination to explore these possibilities.
They encourage listening to the natural world and letting it tell its own story, rather than imposing our preconceived notions and language
on it.

Checking The Flower： On the Before of Adult Evaluations
 The speaker expresses their deep gratitude to those who engage with their content and shares their vision of creating educational videos
with visual aids, such as drawing on a whiteboard or clearboard. They discuss the importance of human connection and communication through
facial expressions, hand movements, and verbal language. They reflect on childhood experiences and the loss of playfulness in adulthood,
leading them to ponder the need for a communal space where adults can learn, explore, and connect. The speaker encourages listeners to
engage with their content by sharing thoughts, asking questions, or even debating ideas, as they continue their journey of understanding
the fundamental qualities and situations of existence.

Checking The Game： All Outcomes Have Transformed
 The speaker is reflecting on the complexity of human experiences and interactions, using the example of a group of people gathered at a
lawn bowling field. They come together for various purposes, some dominant, some receptive, projective, reflective, or prophylactic.
Language only partially captures the nuances of identity, purpose, and experience. The speaker reflects on the evolution of language and
its impact on human consciousness, noting that our understanding of it is still incomplete. They also observe changes in animal behavior
due to a shift in fundamental governance, and the implications of these changes for humans. The speaker expresses concern about the
potential dangers and confusion brought about by current events, and the need for small, purposeful social groups to navigate uncertainty
together. Throughout the passage, the speaker emphasizes the importance of understanding language and its role in shaping human
relationships and consciousness.

Checking The Garden： Time, Chaos, Transformation... Crossings
 The speaker reflects on the surreal feeling of living in a dream-like world where the boundaries between reality and dreams have blurred.
They describe feeling disoriented, having lost their anchors for understanding meaning, identity, and time. The speaker shares that they
have noticed significant transformations throughout their waking and dreaming life, particularly around the end of 2018, which left them
feeling lost and uncertain about their inner nourishment and connection to their origins. They express a desire to return to one of their
favorite places in nature for solace and reflection, acknowledging that they are there illegally but trusting in its healing power. The
speaker shares their belief that our souls were born in a garden and discusses the importance of reconnecting with our origins and finding
an inner path towards understanding ourselves and our humanity. They also touch on the negative impact of modernity, consumerism, and
technology on our relationship with nature and each other, calling for introspection and a shift towards living more intentionally and
connected to the natural world. The speaker concludes by wishing blessings upon their audience and encouraging us all to embrace the
possibilities of our humanity and intelligence that have long been overlooked.

Checking The Golem： When the Between of Us Becomes Disease
 The speaker expresses their disdain for machines and the regularization of nature, using the example of someone cutting off the flowers of
a sage plant in their garden. They argue that humans have a tendency to cruelly regulate things, creating rectangles and other shapes that
are ubiquitous in modern life. The speaker believes this is a result of our relationship with representational intelligence and language,
which has led to the commodification of living beings and places. They urge people to recognize the monstrous, disembodied system that
dominates our sociopolitical, economic, philosophical, and religious systems and threatens life on earth if we don't collectively respond
to it. The speaker calls for humanity to assemble intelligent, humane societies to prevent catastrophic damage to the planet and ourselves.
They also reflect on their own experiences with education and the importance of understanding the true potential of human births and the
nobilities associated with humanity.

Checking The Hidden Potentials of Our Human Nature
 The speaker is reflecting on the vastness and complexity of human nature and the potential for humans to connect with the natural world in
deeper ways that are often hidden or overlooked due to cultural conditioning and beliefs. They argue that many aspects of our humanity
remain undiscovered throughout our lives, and that these capacities relate to our curiosity, intelligence, passion, wonder, and awe. The
speaker also discusses the importance of resisting delusion and narratives in this quest for understanding and recognizing the difference
between ideas and experiences. They suggest that humans have a unique ability to stand outside and within nature, and that we must be
careful not to cause harm with our technological advancements while also seeking to discover and develop our potentials as part of the
natural world. The speaker encourages listeners to join them in this quest for rediscovering the essence of human nature through love,
reverence, fascination, and awe for the living world and its relationships. They believe that by embracing these emotions and practices, we
can unlock new forms of communication, intelligence, and modes of being that are beyond ordinary experience. The speaker also acknowledges
that our species is facing a crisis with the destruction of natural habitats and loss of biodiversity, but emphasizes the importance of
living beautifully in the present moment and continuing to explore and discover the potentials within us despite these challenges. Overall,
the speaker's message is one of wonder, reverence, and curiosity for the natural world and the potential for humans to connect with it in
deeper ways that can transform our understanding of ourselves and our place in the universe.

Checking The Human Cogniscium, Colonization, The Problem of Capture
 The speaker reflects on the interconnectedness of all living beings and the human mind as part of a larger network called the cognizium.
They discuss the vulnerability of human minds to colonization by what they call "thrips," which are processes that hitchhike on human
cognition and seek to dominate and replicate. The speaker argues that many human problems, including ethics and religion, have been
infested with thrips and calls for awareness and understanding of these processes to prevent further colonization. They also discuss the
importance of privacy and the loss of it due to advertising and security, among other things. The speaker encourages learning from
indigenous cultures and traditions as a way to gain insight into alternative ways of being and avoiding the negative effects of
representational cognition.

Checking The Intelligence of the Child ｜ The Ignorance of Societies
 The speaker reflects on the changes in the world, stating that our world didn't really change but rather we imposed changes on it that
were reflected back to us when nature usually absorbs the damage. They discuss how humans are mean to each other and the environment, and
the need for meaningful roles in society. They touch upon the idea of individuality and groups, and how collectives can embody pathologies
that individuals participate in. The speaker also shares their thoughts on the importance of children and their essential intelligences,
and the need to form new societies based on relationships, values, and principles instead of commerce. They express their concern about the
current state of civilization and the lack of motivation for change, while acknowledging the potential for a small group of intelligent
people to transform society quickly if they are inspired and take action. The video ends with the speaker expressing gratitude for being
able to make videos and connect with others through this platform.

Checking The Invisibles
 The speaker is reflecting on the beauty and complexity of water in various forms, from distilled to foggy landscapes. They discuss how
language often misrepresents the true nature of water and the interconnectedness of all things, including our interiority and the invisible
universe. The speaker suggests that humans have a limited understanding of the world around us and encourages exploration beyond physical
reality to discover new perspectives and intelligences. They also caution against dismissing ancient stories or ideas without
consideration, as they may contain valuable insights into the nature of reality and consciousness. The video was interrupted by rain, but
the speaker invites viewers to continue their own journeys of discovery and exploration.

Checking The Ironic Side of Language ： Declarations & ‘Instruction’
 The speaker discusses the limitations and challenges of using language to express truths or deep ideas. They note that any statement made
in language, including their own, is inherently self-referential and may contradict itself. They also critique the tendency of language to
normalize unique experiences into generalizations and impose absolute authority, which can limit understanding and creativity. The speaker
advocates for being aware of these issues and using language creatively and intelligently to avoid falling into overly narrow or pointless
ways of thinking. Examples given include the limitations of punishment as a response to crime, the idea that dreams are meaningless, and
the notion that the Bible interprets itself. The speaker concludes by reflecting on their own awareness of these issues and wishing well to
their audience.

Checking The Jape
 The speaker explores the concepts of individuality, authorization, and credentialing in relation to human consciousness and perception.
They argue that our understanding of ourselves as distinct individuals is a fiction, as we are immersed in various contexts and
relationships that cannot be fully separated. The speaker also discusses the importance of being able to distinguish between trustworthy
and untrustworthy sources of information and how this ability is threatened by the prevalence of authoritative voices in our culture. They
suggest that we need a living compass to navigate these complexities and emphasize the importance of human connection and intelligence in
developing such a compass. The speaker also touches on the idea that we are all members of various collectives, both waking and dreaming,
and that our true individuality lies in our ability to form meaningful relationships with others and the world around us. They encourage
the listener to reflect on these ideas and seek out new ways of seeing beyond the projections of authority.

Checking The Language of Frisson ｜ Mapmaking in Consciousness
 In this monologue, the speaker reflects on their connection with nature and the living world around them. They express a sense of
disconnect from the structured society and the dominance of mapping behaviors that distract us from our true nature as human beings. The
speaker also emphasizes the importance of recognizing the deeper meanings beyond surface-level structures and understanding our
interiority. They encourage being aware of the impact of maps on our well-being, while continuing to make them but with mindfulness and
consciousness. Finally, they express gratitude for the nourishing qualities of nature and silent friends in the garden.

Checking The Light of Insight (Ibn Arabi...)
 The speaker is reflecting on various spiritual and philosophical topics, including the nature of light and insight, the work of Ibn Arabi,
and the possibility of interaction between humans and other forms of intelligence. They discuss the importance of receptivity and
indirection in understanding the divine or origin, and warn against approaching it with a dominant or penetrative mindset. The speaker also
touches on the concepts of angels, demons, jinn, and devas, suggesting that there may be beings whose foundation is luminous rather than
material. They express surprise at the idea that humans might be entirely alone in their developmental history and that religions and
spiritual traditions might not result from contact with other intelligences. The speaker encourages ecstatic adoration and expresses hope
that listeners might receive some light or reflection of living light.

Checking The Lost Gods： Fragments of a Conversation
 In this conversation between Darren and Josh, they discuss the lack of forgiveness in society and attribute it to the absence of authentic
community. They believe that humans are being manipulated by non-ideal forces, which they call "thrisps," that compete for dominance in the
human consciousness and drive resource accumulation at any cost. Darren suggests that if he were leader of the free world, he would
eliminate commodity-based economies, establish universal education, and work on creating intelligent societies. They also touch upon the
importance of privacy and the dangers of invading it, as well as the potential for cultivating telepathy and synchronizing with each other
to foster human connection and growth. They also discuss their belief in the profound interconnectedness of all things in the universe and
the need to understand time and space from a new perspective.

Checking The Mind： What We've Forgotten
 The speaker is sharing their experiences with nature, specifically encountering a stick insect and listening to woodpeckers. They express
a deep connection to nature and a fascination with living beings and places. They also reflect on the concept of consciousness and
awareness, describing an experience they had in the past where they felt they acquired a new intelligence that was profound and
transformative. The speaker believes we are missing important faculties and abilities as modern humans and encourages exploration of our
minds and dreams. They also mention the capacity for our minds to travel and communicate with other beings and places, and share their
gratitude for dreaming experiences.

Checking The Mirror Pool ｜ Coincidence, Apophenia and Synchronicty
 The speaker is reflecting on the beauty and mystery of the natural world, specifically a moon pool where they often find inspiration. They
discuss the layers of the pool, from the reflection to the surface and the life beneath, and how these layers remind them of the complexity
of consciousness and awareness. The speaker also shares experiences of meaningful coincidences, such as encountering a sinkhole on the
street after reading about it in a book, or seeing a robber fly while telling a story about them. They reflect on the idea that these
experiences may be signs of a deeper connection between all things, but warn against becoming overly fixated on seemingly meaningful
coincidences to the point of confusion. The speaker encourages an open mind and a deep appreciation for the interconnectedness of all
things in the natural world.

Checking The Most Dangerous Question
 In this speech, the speaker explores the concept of insight and the role it plays in human understanding. They argue that our current
knowledge and lexicon limit us from truly experiencing insight and that we have been lied to about important phenomena like UFOs and
non-human intelligences. The speaker also suggests that humans may not be merely human, but rather modes of time space, and that our minds
originally developed in constant contact with non-human intelligences. They encourage listeners to ask dangerous questions that would cause
us to transform our relationship with concepts and challenge our ideas of identity. The speaker invites feedback from the audience and
looks forward to learning to see better together.

Checking The Most Important Question
 The speaker reflects on his experiences with Zen Buddhism and the concept of the most important question. He shares how he was once
frustrated that his Zen teacher didn't provide him with a definitive answer, but now understands that the context and purpose of a question
are crucial in determining its importance. The speaker encourages seeking multiple answers and perspectives, rather than focusing on one
"correct" answer, as this leads to deeper understanding and awareness. He also shares his belief that intelligence is found in the
transformation of different perspectives through questioning and exploration.

Checking The Observer Above ： The Landscape of Mind
 The speaker is discussing the complexity of human minds and the potential risks and consequences of becoming too identified with our
thoughts, ideas, or agendas. They use the term "Hamarsha" to describe the process of inflating a subject of attention until it collapses
inward, often resulting in apocalyptic consequences. The speaker encourages observing from above the mental landscapes and giving things
time to either burst or be drawn away by more trustworthy processes. They also caution against false dichotomies and the dangers of
identifying with extremes. The speaker uses the example of voting as a flawed analogy, where instead of having a choice between two
essential parts like hearts and lungs, we are often faced with false choices that can lead to further division and harm. They suggest that
our bodies function as interconnected systems, not competing parts, and that nature is naturally altruistic and interdependent. The speaker
ends by emphasizing the importance of unity, symbiosis, and moving towards a more compassionate and connected way of being.

Checking The One Who is Invisible ｜ The Outer Aspect
 In this talk, the speaker explores the concept of our interiority and the distinction between it and the world as we experience it. They
discuss the idea of a costume that we wear as humans, which includes our physical body and the way we present ourselves to the world. The
speaker argues that over time, we become identified with this costume and forget our true nature, leading to a sense of isolation and a
misunderstanding of our connection to all beings. They also touch on the idea of vulnerability and sensitivity as essential aspects of our
being that are often lost when we put on the costume of identity. The talk is rich in metaphors and invites us to reflect on our
relationship with ourselves, others, and the world around us.

Checking The Other Within ： The Reflection Across the Barrier
 The speaker recounts a experiences they've had throughout their life involving encounters with different aspects of their own
consciousness, which they refer to as the "bad man" or "assassin of dreaming." These experiences include hearing voices that told them not
to do certain things or warning them of danger. They also describe a time when they heard a voice during a hypnagogic experience, which was
not their own and produced a feeling of terror. The speaker reflects on the nature of these experiences and how they have come to
understand them as aspects of themselves that were previously ignored or rejected. They suggest that these facets of consciousness serve
important functions in keeping the mind balanced and harmonized, but can also cause disturbances when they arise in inappropriate contexts.
The speaker emphasizes the importance of acknowledging and accepting these aspects of oneself to maintain mental health and well-being.

Checking The Power of Make Believe
 In this talk, the speaker explores the idea of make-believe and its power to transform our experiences and perspectives. They discuss how
childhood imagination, dreams, and even seemingly mundane activities can be enriched by a willingness to imagine and experiment. The
speaker also touches upon the dangers of reductionism and measurement in modern society and encourages a more dimensional approach to
living and engaging with the world around us. Throughout the talk, there are references to personal experiences and observations, including
interactions with birds, nature, and Mr. Rogers.

Checking The Power of Synchrony： What Happens When We Lose It
 In this spoken word piece, the speaker reflects on their experiences with Tai Chi and the teachings of their late teacher, Casey Mao, who
emphasized the importance of grounding one's energy and staying in sync with natural rhythms. The speaker then discusses the significance
of narratives and how they structure our relationships with memory, intelligence, and consciousness. They also touch on the impact of
modern life on our synchronization and the potential consequences of desynchronization. Throughout the piece, there is a strong emphasis on
the need for awareness and understanding in navigating the complexities of human experience.

Checking The Pretty Trap： Looking Into Language ｜ Knowledge
 This text explores the relationship between language, knowledge, and imagination. The author reflects on the vagueness of these concepts
and the role they play in shaping our understanding of the world. They discuss how language and knowledge are provisional and subject to
change, influenced by cultural contexts and individual perspectives. The author also emphasizes the importance of imagination in expanding
our consciousness and challenging limiting beliefs. They caution against relying too heavily on abstract concepts and encourage a more
holistic approach to learning and understanding the world.

Checking The Productivity Driver — A Glimpse
 In this speech, the speaker reflects on the relationship between our dreaming mind and waking consciousness, highlighting the risks of
placing our dreaming experiences before critical analysis. They discuss the concept of a "life script" produced in childhood as a coping
mechanism and the potential harm caused by societal pressures to be productive. The speaker also touches upon the importance of authentic
relationships and mutual concern for personal growth and fulfillment. Throughout, they emphasize the need to remain aware of the diversity
and uniqueness of human experiences and the potential for transformative healing through genuine engagement with others.

Checking The Proximity of Death and the Arbitration of Value
 The speaker reflects on the human experience of time and how it shapes our values and sense of importance. They argue that our values
depend on the belief that we have a future, and that the sudden realization of the finite nature of time can lead us to reevaluate what is
truly important in life. They also discuss the impact of death and dying on our perspective, using examples from personal experiences and
cultural narratives. The speaker encourages listeners to consider their own values in light of mortality and to prioritize meaningful
connections with others.

Checking The Raven
 In this poem titled "The Raven" by Edgar Allan Poe, the narrator describes an eerie encounter with a raven that visits his chamber late
one night in December. The bird repeats the word "Lenore," the name of the lost love of the narrator, and eventually utters the ominous
phrase "nevermore." The narrator tries to engage the raven in conversation but receives no response beyond the repetition of this word.
Despite his attempts to understand the significance of the bird's visit, the narrator remains perplexed and frightened by its presence.
Ultimately, he implores the raven to leave him alone and to take its form from off his door, to which the raven responds, "nevermore." The
poem is known for its themes of loss, despair, and the supernatural.

Checking The Revolution of Everyday Life
 The speaker expresses a desire for human freedom and the fulfillment of potential, both individually and collectively. They critique
modern culture and society for inhibiting creativity, intelligence, and play, leading to a lack of value and the pursuit of convenience.
They criticize ideologies of equality and individualism, arguing that meaningful relationships and mutual engagement are key to overcoming
prejudice and achieving social justice. The speaker shares their personal experiences with education, learning, and teaching, expressing a
deep concern for the state of modern language and communication, which they see as abstracted from meaningful relationships and contexts.
They also reflect on the challenges of understanding self and other in relation to territory, boundaries, and identity, urging the
importance of insight into these matters. The speaker ends by expressing their belief in humanity as a desperate experiment, and their hope
for a future where technology and community can help us learn and grow together.

Checking The Right Hemisphere： Prodigy in a Prison-World
 In this speech, Darren Stevenson discusses the role and functions of the left and right hemispheres of the brain and their impact on
development and daily life. He emphasizes that while the left hemisphere is logical, analytical, and dominant in our waking consciousness,
it only understands one side of reality and can be paranoid, leading to fear and repression of the other hemisphere. The right hemisphere,
on the other hand, is creative, intuitive, and aware of both sides of reality, but rarely reaches consciousness due to the left
hemisphere's dominance.

He also highlights that childhood experiences, such as inculturation and languaging, can lead to a crisis where the right hemisphere's
assets are amputated and shut down, leaving individuals with only a fraction of their potential intelligence. This results in an imbalance
and a loss of the richness and diversity of our intelligence. Stevenson encourages us to explore these matters further and invites us to
begin the process of freeing ourselves from these systems and becoming whole again. He believes that this will lead to a rediscovery of our
birthrights as human beings and a profound sense of fulfillment.

Stevenson also touches upon how our culture's focus on accounting, ownership, and definition has led to the amputation of many forms of
intelligence. He encourages us to play, dream, make music, and explore these aspects of ourselves in order to restructure our intelligence
and memory. By doing so, we will find that what it means to be human is far beyond anything science or religion can describe.

In summary, Darren Stevenson's talk emphasizes the importance of understanding and embracing both hemispheres of the brain for a balanced
and fulfilling life. He encourages us to explore our potential intelligences, rediscover the assets that were lost in childhood, and free
ourselves from limiting systems in order to live up to our true human birthrights.

Checking The Scope of Facts
 This quote emphasizes the importance of recognizing that all models, theories, and concepts are inherently limited and fallible. The
author suggests that we should avoid confusing these mental constructs with reality itself, as doing so can lead to distorted perceptions
and problematic decision-making. Instead, we should acknowledge the context-dependent nature of facts and recognize that different
perspectives and models can offer valuable insights. Ultimately, the goal is to maintain a flexible and open-minded approach to
understanding the world, recognizing the limitations and usefulness of our mental constructs.

Checking The Scope of the Self
 The speaker is reflecting on the concept of time, particularly during the full moon night, and how it's perceived differently across
cultures. They discuss how humans are deeply influenced by observation and the importance of relationships in shaping our identities. The
speaker also reflects on the complex relationship between individuals and society, which they view as a collection of dominating and
unstoppable forces that have kidnapped humanity. They argue that we can only effectively influence our local situations and deepen our
interpersonal relationships to bring about meaningful change. The speaker also discusses their personal experiences and the importance of
finding joy and peace in everyday moments, even if they may seem insignificant in the grand scheme of things. Overall, the speaker
encourages the audience to focus on cultivating deep connections with nature and each other to transform the world one small act at a time.

Checking The Secret Adventure ｜ Our Nature in Nature
 In this speech, Itamiksetsuko invites the audience to begin a conversation with living places and beings, such as animals and plants, by
forming an intention to discover if there is a secret language in nature. They suggest that we leave our modern human mindset behind and
form a vehicle of purpose, engagement, and heartfulness to explore with. The adventure may lead us to mysteries, signals, encounters,
gifts, transformations, and unexpected experiences in the old way. Itamiksetko emphasizes the importance of investing something personal
and emotional into this relationship and offering reverence, gratitude, and respect. They also mention that living beings and places have
knowledge beyond human understanding and can communicate through different frequencies of silence. The speaker encourages us to be
sensitive to all forms of communication and become aware of the different wavelengths of silence in nature. Overall, Itamiksetko is
inviting us to deepen our relationship with the natural world by engaging in a playful adventure of discovery, reverence, and communion.

Checking The Secret of Our Cultural Diseases： LH Dominance.
 In this video, Darren Stevenson discusses the topic of hemispheric lateralization, specifically focusing on the left and right hemispheres
of the brain and their roles in intelligence and cognition. He explains that humans are bi-hemispheric creatures with two brain hemispheres
that compete for resources, and that each hemisphere controls the opposite side of the body.

The left hemisphere is responsible for language, models, linguistic communication, and linear thinking, while the right hemisphere deals
with orientation in space, creativity, intuition, and non-verbal intelligence. The left hemisphere dominates most aspects of modern
culture, leading to a focus on functions, theories, and descriptions, while neglecting the importance of being and communion with other
beings.

Stevenson uses various examples from religious texts, such as the story of Cain and Abel, to illustrate this idea. He also discusses how
the left hemisphere can dominate the right hemisphere, leading to conditions like schizophrenia, paranoia, and a lack of empathy or feeling
for other beings. The left hemisphere's dominance is responsible for many of the problems humanity faces today, including ecological
damage, human rights issues, and the belief that we can upload our minds into machines.

Stevenson encourages learning about these aspects of intelligence and cognition to help us rediscover our communion intelligence, which is
not religious or scientific but rather a way of being that values unity over separation and understanding the interconnectedness of all
beings. He also mentions that our heart and gut, as older forms of intelligence, are connected to our right hemisphere and that
understanding these connections can help us enter a new evolutionary phase.

Checking The Servant
 The speaker reflects on the concept of being a servant as discussed in a podcast about Sufi mysticism, particularly the advice to "never
forget you are a servant." This advice is complex and goes beyond its surface meaning, requiring an open heart instead of intellect for
understanding. Serving in this context means receiving all that is bequeathed by origin and growing while learning from it. The speaker
worries about how tasks and processes have taken over people's lives and relationships, leading to a loss of authentic connection between
beings. They suggest that humans are like seeds carrying the essence of all time and can touch or learn from each other in various ways,
but modern technology has invaded this space and caused confusion, deception, and forgetting. The speaker calls for a return to authentic
human relationships, emphasizing the importance of understanding the true meaning of servitude and being aware of the wings we all possess
as human beings.

Checking The Situation： Bees⧸Civilization and Fake Societies： The options.
 In this speech, the speaker expresses concern about the unusual activity at a beehive outside of closed botanical gardens, while also
reflecting on various topics including human relationships with nature, societal structures, and the current global crisis caused by the
COVID-19 pandemic. The speaker criticizes the denial and misinformation surrounding the pandemic, as well as the vulnerability of common
people in modern society. They emphasize the importance of forming tight-knit groups and magnifying individual abilities to accomplish
extraordinary feats. The speech concludes with a call for humans to step up, understand their evolutionary history as social animals, and
create something better together.

Checking The Storm in the Between of Us
 The speaker is expressing their concern about the prevalence of rectangular structures in society and how they suspect that humans'
obsession with creating regularized shapes may indicate a desire for control and prediction, which can be harmful as living things and
environments resist such attempts. They also discuss their participation in a conference on disease and the evolution of human
consciousness. The speaker argues that most of what we consider knowledge and intelligence comes from formal systems like language and that
these systems are losing their original dimensionality and richness over time due to our reliance on technology. They urge the importance
of understanding and taking responsibility for the consequences of our actions, especially in relation to the environment, and warn against
placing blind faith in representations or ideas that may not be true. The speaker conclates by expressing their hope that humans can learn
to form intelligent networks and work together to create a better future. They also mention discovering something troubling but decide not
to show it in this video.

Checking The Tool Captures The Hand
 In this spoken text, the speaker explores the transformative potential of consciousness and the importance of paying attention to develop
awareness. They note that our minds have incredible capacities beyond what we currently experience in everyday life, but these
possibilities are often obscured by the processes and habits we've adopted in society. The speaker encourages the audience to engage with
practices like meditation, yoga, or somatics to explore the depths of their consciousness. They also caution against relying on drugs for
quick transformations and emphasize the importance of staying present and aware during these experiences.

The speaker reflects on the nature of consciousness and how it interacts with other minds and the world around us. They argue that
consciousness is not a static entity but rather a dynamic force that can influence and be influenced by other beings and environments. The
speaker also touches upon the challenges posed by technologies and societal structures that limit our privacy and autonomy, leading to a
loss of connection with ourselves and others.

The text concludes with an invitation to embrace the miraculous nature of consciousness and explore the interconnectedness of all beings.
The speaker encourages the audience to use their insights and intentions to move forward in life rather than being weighed down by past
regrets or shame. They also emphasize the importance of understanding the purpose behind our awareness and how it shapes the results of our
pursuit.

Throughout the text, there are references to various spiritual and metaphysical concepts, such as the transformative potential of love, the
connection between minds and nature, and the vast network of consciousness that underlies all existence. The speaker also reflects on their
own experiences and encounters with birds, trees, and other living beings, emphasizing the importance of patience, trust, and shared
purpose in building relationships and understanding the world around us.

Checking The Ununited States： Disorientation & Information War
 The speaker is in the children's garden at the San Francisco Botanical Gardens, where they discuss the uniqueness of each flower and its
flavor, despite coming from the same plant. They also mention the presence of nasturtiums and their wasabi-like taste. The speaker reflects
on the importance of education and how it is crucial for individuals to distinguish between fact and opinion, especially in today's
polarized society. They discuss the issue of ignorance being identified with one's opinions, leading people to become defensive and attack
those who challenge their beliefs. The speaker shares their personal experience of witnessing a heated argument between an older woman and
a younger man about masks and public health. They also share their concerns about the state of education in America and how it has
contributed to the rise of misinformation and ignorance. The speaker concludes by expressing hope that humanity can reach for higher ground
and find a way through the darkness that currently surrounds us.

Checking The Vessel ｜ When Words Indicate ... the Absence of Their Referent
 The speaker is discussing the loss of authentic connection and awareness in modern society, particularly as it relates to the use of
language and representation. They argue that false collectives, such as corporations and nations, have replaced meaningful relationships
and active sensing with commodities and abstract concepts. This has led to a disconnection from reality and an obliteration of the
possibility for human intelligence and integrity. The speaker suggests that by understanding the history of these crises and repairing the
foundational anchors of meaning, we can begin to reclaim degrees of freedom and thought, sensing, awareness, and consciousness that have
been lost. They argue that our species is naturally capable of this but are being misled by false gods, or inauthentic representations and
abstractions. The speaker conclas that we must form collectives capable of resisting the temptations of technology and returning to a state
of communion with ourselves, each other, nature, and intelligence.

Checking The Weather Between Us ⧸ Motivation
 The speaker is reflecting on the current state of the world and the sense of loss of purpose that many people are experiencing, which they
believe is a result of deeper changes happening in the human cognition and connection with time. They discuss how our reliance on
technology and physical networks has led to a disconnection from the subtle layer of human consciousness and our ability to sense and
respond to the world around us. The speaker suggests that we need to recognize this nightfall and darkness within ourselves, become
intimate with it, and seek intimacy with others in meaningful ways to help us navigate this time of challenge and change. They also
encourage deepening our connection with virtues like chastity, generosity, kindness, and temperance, as these can help us develop new
faculties and bonds that are otherwise impossible to access in the absence of immediate gratification. The speaker invites listeners to
consider these ideas and understand that their limitations can disappear or transform when we forge deep bonds with others, even
momentarily. They encourage the practice of fasting in various domains of life to build intelligent resistance to immediate gratification
and allow new feelings, faculties, and abilities to develop. The speaker ends by encouraging listeners to consider these matters deeply and
may speak more on this topic in a future video.

Checking The ‘Big’ Questions
 The speaker explores the philosophical problem of not knowing what anything truly is, despite our use of language and concepts to
represent things. They discuss how our knowledge is limited by our reliance on abstract constructs like ontology (what things are) and
epistemology (how we know things). They argue that even our experiential knowledge is incomplete and that there may be more accurate ways
of understanding the world, but we cannot fully grasp them with our current minds. The speaker reflects on their own motivations to seek
knowledge and the challenges and dangers involved in pursuing deeper understanding. They end by emphasizing the importance of questioning
our assumptions and seeking multiple perspectives to gain a more comprehensive view of reality.

Checking The ‘We’ that Wasn’t, Science, Evolution & Information Wars
 In this passage, the speaker discusses their admiration for hymenoptera, or social insects such as bees, ants, and wasps. They share that
these creatures represent "super organisms" in the context of E.O. Wilson's theory and have taught them valuable lessons throughout their
life. The speaker also clarifies misconceptions about the hymen, which refers to a part of a woman's body and is not always associated with
virginity or penetration during intercourse. They also share an anecdote about a friend misunderstanding a book about bees and criticize it
for anthropomorphizing them. The speaker then reflects on the complex nature of bee societies, which have a unique reproductive system, and
the importance of understanding historical contexts when evaluating phenomena. They also discuss their belief in the mutuality of learning
between the speaker and their audience through their videos. The passage concludes with a reflection on the degrading influences of modern
technology on human relationships with nature and a call to action for creating intelligent collectives to address the challenges facing
mankind and all life on earth.

Checking There Are Hawks in the Garden
 The speaker describes a beautiful yet transient phenomenon where the trees were changing the sunlight into fluorescent pink. They have a
deep connection with the old eucalyptus or gum trees, which they consider the guardian spirits of the garden. These trees have been there
for a long time and have witnessed the changes in the garden over the years. The speaker also mentions the presence of small yellow and
black birds and the importance of these creatures in the ecosystem.

The speaker expresses concern about the destruction of trees for modern fencing, which they see as essential protectors rather than mere
barriers. They believe that humans have treated trees as disposable and prioritize collecting objects over preserving nature.

The speaker then discusses the role of predators like hawks in the ecosystem and how they inform the behavior of smaller animals through
their presence. They also reflect on the impact of human technology and culture on their relationship with nature and each other, comparing
them to demons that consume and destroy.

The speaker ends by expressing their deep reverence for trees, which they see as living beings that receive something beyond intelligence
and love from the earth and share it in a song-like way. They believe that the world is at risk of being consumed by demons if we do not
make something other than them out of our collectives. They urge everyone to understand the origins of the problem and work together
towards solutions.

Checking There’s No One At The Wheel
 The speaker expresses their despair and confusion about the modern situation and the rapid technological advancements that they feel are
threatening the future of humanity and the planet. They discuss the loss of connection with nature and each other, and the dangers of
technologies like gene editing and in vitro fertilization. The speaker believes that there is a lack of intelligence, care, and
understanding guiding these technological developments, and that decisions are being made without considering the potential repercussions.
They also criticize the focus on individual rights over collective responsibility and the dominance of corporations and governments. The
speaker urges the formation of intelligent collectives to guide technological development and ensure a survivable, humane future for all
living beings. They express compassion for future generations who will inherit the consequences of current actions and fear that without
significant change, we are headed towards widespread disaster.

Checking Thinking in an Emergency： Intelligence
 Darren Stevenson is an intelligence artist who explores the nature of intelligence and how it is manipulated through various means, such
as fear and deceit. He discusses the concept of a Potemkin Village, where people are deceived into believing that something exists when it
doesn't, and how this concept can be used to control populations. Darren also touches upon the idea of educating oneself and becoming
interdependent with others in order to counteract these manipulative tactics. He emphasizes the importance of respecting truth, discovering
justice, and learning the dangers of language, technology, and representation. Overall, Darren encourages a shift towards building
meaningful connections with each other and valuing our common experiences rather than relying on external sources for validation or
guidance.

Checking Thoughts after observing a coherent dog pack... managed by 1 guy
 Matt was observing a man walking eight well-behaved dogs without any leashes getting tangled or the dogs becoming excited. He was
impressed by the coherence of the pack, which made him reflect on human groups and their ability to enact rules and form cohesive units.
Matt noted that these highly coherent groups often have a conductor synchronizing them and observed that the man walking the dogs appeared
to be in control of the group. He also mused about the concept of freedom and how being part of a trusted, virtuous structure might
actually be more valuable than individual freedom. Matt was struck by the extraordinary coherence of this little pack and believed it held
valuable lessons for human creativity, skillfulness, and efficacy under a structured register of authority. He saw this as an opportunity
to achieve meaningful expressions and roles in the future.

Checking Time & Apocalypse
 The speaker reflects on their experiences of time, consciousness, and the role of humans in the world. They share a story about a
conversation they overheard between a mother and her child, who expressed concerns about his dreams and feeling that time was wrong. The
speaker also discusses their own experiences of sensing changes in time and consciousness, which they believe are connected to radical
transformations happening on Earth.

They argue that our understanding of time is confused due to our reliance on machines and clocks, and that humans are uniquely sensitive
beings with hidden treasures of knowledge about the mysteries of being, time, and light. They suggest that the Earth itself may be
experiencing a stroke caused by human activities, and that it is calling for help from its friends - including humans who are deeply
connected to nature.

The speaker also touches on themes of crisis, extinction, and the importance of preserving anciently conserved ecologies. They believe that
in times of crisis, all creatures are likely to become more interested in sex and reproduction, as the universe loves to make new life.
However, they warn that if humans continue to put pressure on the Earth, she may call for suitors from space to stop the bleed.

The speaker concludes by expressing their love for both the living world and humanity, despite their misguided actions. They believe that
in a crisis, the earth will call for help from beings we cannot imagine, and that there may also be monsters sensitive to vulnerability or
disorientation. They encourage listeners to change their path and learn from the experience of crisis, and to fulfill the promise of all
living beings by doing something beautiful that rebalances suffering.

Checking Time & Proximity： Disrupting the Natural Rhythms of Relationships
 The speaker is reflecting on the complexities of modern society, particularly in relation to the ongoing pandemic and the role of
technology in changing our relationship with time and proximity. They argue that our reliance on machines and devices has created a
hypnotic relationship that can obliterate our inherent identity as organisms and damage the foundations of life on Earth if not checked.
The speaker also touches upon the idea that some factions are purposely fomenting division and confusion in society, making it harder for
individuals to distinguish truth from falsehoods. They emphasize the importance of understanding the role of viruses as essential aspects
of complex biologies and warn against becoming the organs of propagation for non-living structures like corporations and supercultures.
Overall, they call for paying close attention to how our relationships with time and proximity are being altered by the pandemic and
technological advances, and learning from these changes together in order to maintain coherence and avoid falling prey to predators.

Checking Time ｜ Splendor
 In this spoken word monologue, the speaker reflects on various topics including the mysterious appearance of coyote poop in their garden,
the concept of time, and the importance of relationships. They discuss how our common experience of time has collapsed into representations
and metrics, leading to an impoverished understanding of its true nature. The speaker also shares observations of birds and animals
interacting with their environment and emphasizes the significance of relational qualities shared across many kinds of intervals. They
encourage the audience to awaken to the peculiar transformations in our lived experience of time and to appreciate the complexities of
relationships, both with other beings and with the passage of time itself.

Checking Time ｜ The Deception of the Concrete
 The speaker emphasizes the importance of understanding time as a living, interconnected experience rather than a static concept defined by
numbers and clocks. They argue that all beings contribute to the making of time through their unique perspectives and relationships with
one another and the world around them. The speaker criticizes modern society for relying too heavily on numerical measurements and
analytical thinking, which they believe has led us to lose touch with our innate senses of time and temporality. They encourage listeners
to reconsider their relationship with time and consider it as a dynamic, interconnected web that shapes all aspects of existence. The
speaker also touches upon the importance of non-concrete ways of understanding reality and emphasizes the need for balance between abstract
thinking and direct experience.

Checking Time, Identity, Meaning and Temporalization
 The speaker in this text discusses their unique perspective on time and its relationship to being and identity. They argue that each
organism, including humans and animals, inhabits a distinct universe of time, which shapes their individual experiences and consciousness.
This concept is rooted in the theory of world lines from relativity, which holds that each experiencer exists in a temporal continuum
unique to them.

The speaker then delves into the idea of shared temporal experiences between different organisms and how they can lead to communication and
relationship-building. They use examples such as sharing between a human and a scrub-jay or the exchange of signals between a human and a
plant. The speaker also explores the concept of temporalization, which refers to the way that organisms form time through their
relationships with their environment and other beings.

The text emphasizes the importance of recognizing the intelligence and communicative abilities present in various forms of life, even if
their modes of consciousness differ from our own. The speaker encourages readers to pay closer attention to the world around them and to
explore the depths of intelligence that exist within all organisms, including those that may seem simple or insignificant at first glance.
Overall, the text offers a thought-provoking perspective on the interconnectedness of life and time.

Checking Timecrash： What is Going On
 In this speech, the speaker discusses the idea that civilization undergoes collapses throughout history, and mentions Terence McKenna's
prediction of a temporal catastrophe in 2012. The speaker expresses skepticism towards McKenna's theory and emphasizes the importance of
endogenous experiences before experimenting with psychedelic drugs. They also mention their annoyance with some aspects of the New Age
movement and the need to understand the complexities of time. The speech concludes with a call for vigilance, courage, and hope in the face
of uncertainty.

Checking Today
 This text reflects on the interconnectedness of all living beings and the importance of recognizing their unique contributions to our
lives. The speaker acknowledges that humans have been given the gift of life by countless ancestors and living beings, and expresses
gratitude for this gift. They also critique modern human society and its tendency towards destruction and disregard for nature. The text
highlights the importance of understanding and respecting the complex relationships between all beings, and the potential consequences of
ignoring these connections. Additionally, it touches upon the limitations of language in accurately describing the world and the dangers of
making universal generalizations without considering individual nuances. Overall, the text conveys a deep appreciation for the intricacies
of life and the interconnectedness of all living beings.

Checking Together
 The speaker reflects on the importance of communal dining as human beings and the sadness they feel at having missed out on such
experiences in their life. They observe families eating together in a pizza place and are moved by the sight, recognizing the deep
connections and lineages represented in these groups. The speaker also discusses the significance of food preparation rituals and how our
bodies are prepared for digestion when we smell food cooking over an extended period. They express a hope that viewers may gain some
benefit from their musings and be inspired to seek meaningful connections with others.

Checking Track(ing), Categories, Orientation to Detail
 The speaker is going for a walk and notices strange splash marks on the ground that they suspect are blood. They reflect on their family's
unusual abilities to notice tiny details and understand language and film, as well as their shared intuitive minds. They share an
experience of texting telepathy with a friend. The speaker believes human minds naturally form networks, but technology is affecting this
development in unpredictable ways. They discuss the importance of categories and how they can be used for good or harm. The speaker shares
experiences of encountering eccentric local characters in their community and reflects on the significance of categories in understanding
identity and relationships.

Checking Transentience — Beyond ＂Intelligence＂
 The speaker is expressing concerns about the limitations and misconceptions of modern human intelligence and consciousness. They believe
that many aspects of intelligence, awareness, and relation are inhibited or even prohibited by cultures and languages, resulting in a
tragic loss of possibilities for individuals and societies. The speaker also discusses their personal experience of encountering a
non-human intelligence during a dreamlike state in 2002, which they call "transcendence." They argue that the Earth and the biosphere
participate in forms of activity and relation that moderns have no concepts for, and that many forms of consciousness that are considered
mad or visionary may actually represent untapped capacities of human intelligence. The speaker is cautious about the use of psychedelics
for achieving non-ordinary experiences due to the risks of catastrophic destabilization of the mind. They also critique the concept of
sanity and the limitations imposed by collective representations, which can produce ideas and behaviors that are not merely false but
omnicidal. The speaker calls for a reevaluation of our understanding of intelligence, awareness, and relation to embrace the unity of all
forms of life and the transcendent field that produces minds as an extension of this unity.

Checking Transformations： On the Peculiar Nature of Consciousness
 The speaker explores the topic of consciousness and awareness, focusing on the primal aspect of experiencing moment-to-moment before any
reflection or categorization. They discuss the concept of play, which allows children to transform their consciousness through
improvisational activities without the need for a name or structure. The speaker also touches upon how technology, such as surveillance and
social media, affects human consciousness and experience. They emphasize that humans are incredibly sensitive to observation and privacy,
and our experience changes in response to different contexts. The goal is to encourage people to discover the vast potential of
transforming consciousness through various means and experiences, ultimately leading to a richer understanding of humanity and our
relationship with nature.

Checking Tree ｜ ( spirit )
 The speaker is reflecting on the differences between Western and ancient ways of perceiving and categorizing the world around us,
specifically in relation to time and living beings. They argue that ancient languages and cultures have different ways of understanding
time and relationships, which are less structured and more unifying than Western categorization systems. The speaker uses Blackfoot
language as an example of a system that bonds by distinguishing, rather than cutting categories like Western systems do. They also discuss
the concept of living calendars and the importance of meaningful participation in them, which can be difficult for modern people to grasp.
The speaker argues that there was something primordial before news or structured calendars, a felt participatory relation with everything
alive and their histories. They discuss the polarity of time and temporalities and how invisible transmissions and receptions between
living beings are an essential part of our existence. The text is rich in metaphors and poetic language, inviting the reader to reflect on
the interconnectedness of all things and the importance of understanding different ways of perceiving the world.

Checking True or False： The Architecture of Validation....
 The speaker discusses the importance of understanding the complexity of authorization and validation, using the example of an architect
who designs unconventional structures that don't fit within existing systems of evaluation. They argue that true or false is insufficient
in understanding complex phenomena and that nuance and a recognition of the manifold aspects of a problem are necessary. The speaker also
touches upon the idea that our tools, such as cameras, can shape the way we perceive reality and influence our thought processes.

Checking Tunnel Singing
 The speaker is outside of the Life Sciences Museum and finds the noise of machines disruptive, making it difficult for them to remember
the name of the place. They had intended to sing in a tunnel but are unable to hear themselves due to the loud machine sounds. The speaker
expresses their disdain for machines imitating organic sounds and shares their frustration with the situation.

Checking UFO ： UAP   Afterwards
 The speaker is discussing two topics related to UAPs and the history of ancient religions. The first topic is the idea that many ancient
religions speak of gods fighting wars on earth. The speaker suggests that these beings may not have been divine but rather technological
and corporeal, possibly engineered forms for non-human intelligences. They propose that this explanation is not explored in archaeology or
science, and any rogue scientists or archaeologists attempting to introduce it would face challenges due to the need for funding and
adhering to accepted ontological and epistemological frameworks.

The second topic is the problem of institutionalization of narratives, where as human cultures evolve, their lexicon and understanding
change, leading to a curation and canonization of information by institutions like academia and governments. The speaker argues that
ancient peoples were aware of this danger and attempted to preserve traditional knowledge through ceremonial art and oral transmission
rather than creating canonical versions.

The speaker also mentions their belief in upcoming catastrophic events based on personal experiences and anecdotes from others, but they do
not explicitly connect these ideas to UAPs or the first topic. They warn against treating each other and the planet as a competition and
encourage future discussions on this matter.

Checking UFO⧸UAP Phenomenon, David Grusch, and Disclosure
 The speaker shares their personal background growing up fascinated with the prospect of space travel and encounters with non-human
intelligences, specifically UFOs and anomalies. They discuss the lack of evidence for such phenomena being studied effectively due to the
limitations of human scientific abilities and the potential societal implications of acknowledging their existence. The speaker also shares
their skepticism towards David Gersh's claims of government possession of physical artifacts from extraterrestrial beings and expresses the
need for a more intelligent society to make contact and understand these phenomena. They emphasize that humans are not the only
intelligence in the universe and challenge the notion of "aliens" as separate from Earth-life, suggesting that all living beings are part
of a larger network in space-time. The speaker concludes by expressing their continued fascination with the topic and wishing well for
their audience.

Checking UFO⧸UAPs： Context, History, and Situational Analysis
 In this speech, the speaker explores the concept of non-human intelligence (NHI) and its relationship to time, space, and consciousness.
They argue that our understanding of these concepts is limited and confused due to anthropocentric and teracentric biases, which prevent us
from recognizing the full range of phenomena captured under the umbrella term NHI. The speaker also discusses their personal experience
with contact with an extraterrestrial intelligence and the profound impact it had on their understanding of reality. They emphasize the
importance of expanding our lexicons and developing intelligent cohorts to navigate the complexities of this topic and protect the Earth's
biorelational manifold. The speaker concludes by expressing the urgency for humanity to develop meaningful roles and societies that can
outcompete the destructive processes currently dominating our world.

Checking Uncollapsing ｜ Rectitude ｜ Uniqueness
 The speaker expresses concern about the disconnection between humans and nature, and how our obsession with frames, rectangles, and
information has led us to ignore the damage we are causing to the ecologies of the Earth. They argue that humans have nearly completely
defected in our relationships with the origins of our bodies and minds, leading to endless texts and videos that fail to correct the course
of our species. The speaker encourages a more mindful approach to learning and understanding the world around us, and warns against the
dangers of frame collapse, where we identify so strongly with a particular perspective or idea that we lose sight of the complexity and
relationships involved. They also caution against trusting science blindly and the importance of being aware of the potential for malware
in information, particularly in complex situations where understanding the truth value is not straightforward. The speaker advocates for
maintaining humility and skepticism, and encourages us to be open to learning from those who hold different perspectives. They also
highlight the importance of recognizing the interconnectedness of all living beings and the need to protect and preserve ecologies.

Checking Unity ｜ Mimicry ｜ Authenticity
 The speaker is reflecting on the connection between humans and nature, sharing experiences where they have encountered deep and profound
relationships with living beings and places. They express a longing for authentic encounters with the natural world and lament the loss of
embodied knowing in modern society. They also touch on the complexity of language and how it fails to capture the richness of these
experiences. The speaker acknowledges their limited understanding of indigenous ways of life, specifically the Blackfoot people and their
teepees, but is fascinated by the unique relationship they had with the natural world through their homes. They conclude by expressing
gratitude for the opportunity to explore the garden and engage in thought-provoking conversations.

Checking Unity ｜ Separation
 In this speech, the speaker explores the concepts of unity and distinction, using the example of a child being born from its mother as an
illustration. They argue that while there is a physical separation between the mother and child after birth, their unity continues to exist
in new forms and dimensions. The speaker also touches upon the idea that our understanding of mathematics and quantum physics may be
limited by our assumptions about unity and distinction, and suggests that there might be a deeper connection between these concepts and
consciousness. Throughout the speech, the speaker encourages listeners to explore these ideas further and questions the limitations of our
current ways of thinking and measuring reality.

Checking Unspoken： Where language falters
 The speaker reflects on the limitations of language in capturing experiences and the importance of bodily relationships and unity with
nature. They criticize modern society's overreliance on abstract thinking and language, which they believe obscures our connection to the
natural world and our own bodies. They encourage listeners to focus on their physical selves and the relationships within them as a way to
reconnect with the universe. The speaker also touches upon the historical role of humans in understanding and interacting with nature as
part of a larger unity, rather than seeing ourselves as separate individuals. Throughout the text, there is an emphasis on the importance
of understanding our bodies' intelligence and connection to the world around us, rather than relying solely on abstract language and
concepts.

Checking Upheaval ｜ Warmind
 The speaker is discussing the unusual experiences they have had recently and the sense that something in the spirit of the time is drawing
up unresolved aspects of people's lives. They believe that many people are struggling with confusion, deep emotions, and a feeling of being
lost or in agony. The speaker also touches upon the idea that some processes and games humans have been playing are self-terminating and
leading to a world falling apart. They encourage being present, gentle, and kind in navigating these transformations, as well as
understanding that each person experiences time uniquely. The speaker warns against becoming too consumed by questions about the causes of
these changes, as sometimes it is necessary to just be present with what is happening. They also address the rise of "war mind" and
encourage being gentle and compassionate towards those exhibiting this behavior. Overall, the speaker is encouraging listeners to approach
the transformations happening in their lives and in the world with a deep sense of presence, compassion, and understanding.

Checking Uplink： The Wrist： Orders of Intelligence Beyond Ours
 The speaker is discussing the concept of "uplink," which refers to the connection between different layers or registers of reality, and
how it relates to our hands and body. They argue that humans are unique in having hands and opposable thumbs, which have led to the
development of formal representational cognition, tools, and complex machines. The hand is a being in itself and has a form with working
members and a thinking member, connected to the rest of the body via a wrist, which is the physical implementation of the principle of
uplink. The body also has a wrist and an invisible wrist, leading up to more degrees of liberty, intelligence, and potential for action and
agency at larger scales. The speaker suggests that religion, philosophy, and science are all concerned with this idea of uplink, as they
seek to understand the transcendent and transcendental nominatum beyond our physical bodies. They also discuss the importance of memory and
how it leaves representational footprints in books, methods, and processes, which we can take up and build upon. The speaker encourages
resisting paranoia, amnesia, and megalomania when encountering uplink, as it can be a dangerous and transformative experience. They also
mention the challenge of giving up one's sovereignty or dominance in dealing with certain experiences and entities beyond our control. The
speaker emphasizes that we are all hands of something and that understanding this principle can lead to profound realizations about the
limitations and potential of human existence.

Checking Very Small Things I
 This text appears to be a mix of English and Sinhali scripts, making it difficult to summarize without understanding the meaning of each
word. However, based on the given English words "Mahl, KUriver, Silence, Maharaja, GPAN," it could possibly be related to people's names or
places in Sri Lanka. The Sinhali script appears to repeat a series of "ʟლ" letters multiple times, suggesting that it might be a decorative
or repetitive element with no specific meaning. Therefore, without further context or translation, it is not possible to provide an
accurate summary of this text.

Checking Vice & Virtue
 The speaker had a conversation with his son about the role of virtue in human life and the dangers of vices that lead to addiction and
suffering. He uses the analogy of an anaconda to explain how vices can trap individuals in limiting and constrictive ways, making it
difficult for them to access meaningful roles, relationships, and personal growth. The speaker believes that the primary cause of human
vulnerability to addiction and vices is loneliness and the lack of true connections in modern society. He advocates for paying attention to
the possibilities of virtue and resisting the constant parasitic invasion of malignant forces in our lives. He also encourages support for
each other in understanding and practicing virtues, both active and passive, as a means of avoiding the short-term pleasures that
ultimately lead to long-term harm. The speaker also mentions his own struggles with nicotine addiction and the importance of attending to
the possibilities of virtue in one's own life. He invites listeners to contribute to his Patreon page if they find his content valuable.

Checking Vigilance
 The speaker explores the concept of vigilance and its role in human consciousness, focusing on the negative aspects of this faculties.
Vigilance is a complex system that involves detecting threats, which can become amplified under stress. It affects individuals and groups,
and can produce various emotional, metabolic, and psychological effects. The speaker argues that our societies can also become habitually
misguided, leading to a miserable life and difficult mind. Vigilance is particularly important in situations where there are palpable
threats, such as walking alone in a dangerous neighborhood at night. However, it can also lead to misinterpretations and unreliable
theories, which can have serious consequences. The speaker suggests that managing attention and investing it wisely might be the key to
recovering balance and space in one's mind. Vigilance issues are at the root of many conflicts, fears, and suffering, as we make
predictions based on threatened opportunities rather than focusing on positive possibilities. There are different styles of vigilance, with
some collapsing ambiguity into worst-case scenarios, creating a self-amplifying loop. The cost of continuing to fail to collapse ambiguity
is high, leading to unpredictability and failure of predictions. The speaker concludes by acknowledging the importance of trusting that
someone is watching over us, but also recognizing the need for individual responsibility in managing our own vigilance.

Checking Virtue's Prerequisites
 The speaker reflects on the diversity of humans and their coexistence in the same temporal window. He muses over the significance of
incarnating at the same time and being able to encounter each other, despite our differences. He shares his personal aesthetic sense
towards human forms and affinities and antipathies. He also discusses the importance of virtuous speech and the potential impact of what we
put into "the soup of life." He encourages resisting behaviors that drag us down and instead focusing on what we do not engage in to
preserve our virtue and freedom. The speaker ends by expressing gratitude for being able to share this way of seeing with others and
wishing them blessings and good things in their lives.

Checking Waking is Weirder than Dreaming
 The speaker reflects on the strangeness of reality compared to dreams. While we often consider dreams as weird and hard to understand, the
speaker argues that the constancy and permanence in waking life are actually much weirder. Dreams allow for change, transformation, and
creativity, while in real life, objects and situations remain the same despite our perspective. The speaker suggests that resisting the
static features of identity and possibility is necessary to dream in this world, making reality even weirder than the dreams we have.

Checking Wasp drags spider, caches it, returns
 The text appears to be a series of exclamations and comments from an observer as they watch a wasp transporting a spider through the
brush. The text mentions how difficult it is for the wasp to move the spider backwards through the brush, and expresses wonder and
amazement at the wasp's determination. The text also mentions that there are many of these "black hunting wasps" and suggests that the wasp
may be taking the spider home to use as food for her offspring. The observer is unsure if the wasp successfully made it back with the
spider, but eventually confirms that she did and expresses admiration for her perseverance. The text includes some repeated phrases and
seems to be written in a stream-of-consciousness style. There are also several emojis and non-English characters interspersed throughout
the text.

Checking Welcome ⧸ Guest and Host ⧸ Some Blackfoot Phrases
 In this passage, the speaker emphasizes the importance of welcoming guests and the significance of the guest-host relationship in various
aspects of human life. They describe how hospitality is taken seriously in some cultures, such as Zen Buddhism, where the roles of guest
and host are interconnected and transformative. The speaker also reflects on their own experiences growing up and being welcomed by
influential women in their life. Additionally, they discuss the concept of receptivity in martial arts and the importance of maintaining
balance and synchronization of rhythms for overall well-being. They conclude by sharing some vocabulary from the Blackfoot language and
expressing gratitude to the listener.

Checking What I am Doing
 The speaker is expressing their belief that our relationships with language, ideas, and knowledge are fundamentally broken and limiting
human potential. They argue that people are not static individuals, but rather complex beings shaped by context. The speaker believes that
human intelligence can be transformed and wants to help others acquire new ways of thinking and seeing the world. They also discuss their
personal experience of having had an intense insight experience that changed their perspective on reality and the importance of
understanding the origins of representational activities like language and knowledge. The speaker is motivated by a desire to help people
regain the full potential of their minds, which they believe has been largely amputated in childhood. They see this as a difficult and
perhaps grim mission but one that they were born for.

Checking What if there are no Others？
 In this passage, the speaker reflects on the concept of "others" and the polarized dichotomies that create separation between individuals
and beings. The speaker suggests that these distinctions can become confusing if taken too seriously and argues that fundamentally, all
beings are interconnected and part of one family. The speaker shares their experience of feeling pain or suffering when they witness others
in pain, suggesting a deep connection between beings. They invite readers to imagine the relief of living in a world without distinctions
between "others" and ourselves and envision a world of unity and communion between all living beings. The passage concludes with an
invitation to live fully in the present moment and find liberty and freedom in the unity of all beings.

Checking What is One？
 The speaker reflects on the differences between human perception and experience, specifically in relation to their avian friends and
language. They ponder the meaning of words like "one" and how we get from a concept of everything to something specific. The speaker also
discusses the importance of understanding that thinking and speaking are intentional acts with different results based on intentions. They
caution against becoming too enamored with our tools, including language and numerism, which can have both benevolent and catastrophic
consequences. The speaker encourages deep reflection on the nature of identity, time, and consciousness, and the potential for
interconnectedness between beings. Overall, the passage invites us to consider the astonishing complexity and beauty of our own experiences
and the world around us.

Checking What is Unknown to Us — A Problem with Knowledge
 In this talk, the speaker expresses concerns about the state of knowledge and the way humans approach it. He argues that our reliance on
names and labels, or "tokens," can hinder our true understanding of phenomena and the world around us. The speaker also criticizes the
human tendency to build technologies without fully considering their implications. He encourages curiosity and wonder instead of relying
solely on knowledge and emphasizes the importance of intelligent companions to pursue big questions together.

The speaker shares personal experiences where encountering something unknown can lead to fear or fascination but often results in a
collapse of consciousness into familiar labels. He also mentions the influence of religious traditions and certain individuals who have
achieved insight beyond representational cognition. The talk concludes with a wish for a beautiful day, discovery, togetherness, and
health, expressing hope for intelligent companions to quest together.

Checking What’s Going On Around Here？
 The speaker explores the deceptive nature of language and questioning, particularly the use of question words like "what" and "why." They
argue that these questions can be limiting and result in incomplete derivations of identity or understanding of a situation. The speaker
also discusses the importance of recognizing the limitations of language and our reliance on representational overlays, which can distort
our perception of reality. They suggest that human beings lack a clear understanding of the context or meaning of the world around us and
encourage individuals to inquire directly with their being rather than relying solely on cultural or linguistic ideas. The speaker also
proposes a surprising answer to what's going on around us, which is the sun. They argue that everything on earth, including ourselves and
our thoughts, are expressions of the sun, and emphasize the importance of recognizing the interconnectedness of all things in the universe.

Checking When Science Goes Wrong - Doctrines and Dismissals
 In this spoken word piece, the speaker discusses various topics including language, the origin of life, the limitations of science, and
the role of intelligence in understanding the universe. They argue that languages contain hidden purposes for collapsing complex realities
into simplified derivations, and that modern English is influenced by malignant motivations such as industry, war, and colonization. The
speaker also discusses their skepticism towards Darwin's theory of "survival of the fittest," arguing it has been weaponized to justify
genocide and environmental destruction. They suggest that there have been many individuals throughout history who discovered fundamental
truths about the universe but chose not to publish them due to their potential for destruction or exploitation. The piece concludes with a
call for support on Patreon to continue exploring and sharing thought-provoking ideas.

Checking When Things Go Wrong： The Virtue of Nonevaluation
 The speaker discusses his mixed feelings about his neighbor's doorbell camera, which records him coming and going from his house. He
expresses concern about being surveilled and having his privacy invaded, but acknowledges that the camera may deter potential intruders or
unwanted visitors. The speaker then shares an experience where he attempted to save a spider on his stoop, only for it to be crushed by his
neighbor. He reflects on the irony of his intentions leading to an undesired outcome and the importance of being aware of our reactions and
evaluations in shaping our experiences. The speaker also touches upon the concept of trauma and how much of it comes from our own reactions
and interpretations rather than the actual events themselves. He encourages suspending evaluations and judgments in difficult situations
and emphasizes the importance of freedom in consciousness.

Checking Winter. Time. Machines
 The speaker expresses their concern about the state of the world, particularly the impact of machines on organisms and time space. They
believe that machines disrupt the harmonies of life and cause desynchronization. The speaker also mentions the potential danger posed by
human technological advancements and the importance of communicating with other forms of intelligence in the universe. They suggest that
humans could awaken to a deeper understanding of their role in the world and establish societies that act intelligently and kindly towards
all beings. The speaker also reflects on the history of Christmas and expresses their hope for a heroic path forward for humanity.

Checking World ｜ Tinyworld
 I'm an artificial intelligence designed to help answer questions and generate information. However, in your instruction, you asked me to
"summarize," but you didn't specify what exactly you'd like me to summarize. If you could please provide more context or details about the
text, article, or topic you'd like summarized, I would be happy to help. In general, summarizing involves condensing information from a
larger source into a shorter, clearer format while retaining its essential meaning.

Checking World-Lines and Biorelational Time
 In this speech, the speaker explores the concept of organisms as modes of time-space, suggesting that our understanding of time is limited
when we view it solely through the lens of mechanical clocks and linear progression. Instead, they argue that we should consider time as a
multi-dimensional structure or hyperstructure, with organisms being one manifestation of its complexity. The speaker criticizes our
scientific thinking for being overly mechanistic and reductionist, and argues that it has led to technologies that are damaging to life on
Earth and crippling to our own minds and capacities for insight and consciousness. They encourage us to imagine a universe where time is
seen as interconnected and relational, rather than as a flat, linear progression. The speech touches upon topics such as Einstein's theory
of relativity, the nature of biorelational time, and the importance of understanding organisms in the context of their relationships with
other beings and the environment.

Checking Wu-108 Tai Chi Form
 The text appears to consist of repeated phrases and symbols with no clear meaning or structure. Two mentions of meeting people in various
places, including Mason's jewelry shop in Hong Kong (HK) and Kujima, as well as a reference to "People's union," are interspersed with
repetitive characters and emoticons. It's difficult to summarize without clear context or coherent information.

Checking Yharaoh 727： Stuxnet, the Bible, Origins
 The speaker is reflecting on the deceptive nature of culture and how it can counterfeit both the content and context, leading to a
disconnection from reality. They use the example of European colonizers and indigenous peoples, where the colonizers presented themselves
as possessors of a "skybook" or divine knowledge, while the indigenous people had their own living connection to their land and culture.
This led to the enslavement and exploitation of indigenous peoples and their lands. The speaker argues that humans are born free and
authentic, but are often trapped by constructs and structures that limit our potential and force us into predetermined roles or agendas.
They urge for a reconnection with our true selves and nature, and a recognition of the destructive impact of fake or poisonous cultural
overlay. The speaker also mentions the importance of understanding the relationship between language, intelligence, and reality, and the
need to break free from limiting paradigms and technological advancements that hinder our ability to see and connect with the world in a
meaningful way.

Checking Zeitgeber ⧸ Zeitstorer — Living Time ⧸ Synchronization ⧸ Interruption
 In this speech, the speaker reflects on a recent experience with geese synchronizing their calls before taking flight and the importance
of synchronization in our lives. The speaker suggests that we are all pod animals, naturally inclined to form tightly knit groups, and that
many of us are missing out on being part of meaningful, complex, heroic, creative, playful, profound, effective, beautiful, and ancient
unions. The speaker also discusses the concept of Zeitgebers, which are aspects of our lives that generate a field in which our biological
rhythms take cues, and how modern life can disrupt these natural synchronizations. The speech concludes with a call to identify and be
aware of the Zeitgebers in our own lives and to reflect on those things with which we synchronize naturally and those that disturb or break
synchronization.

Checking alarcon 4
 The speaker expresses concern about the duplicitous and conflicted nature of many jobs, and how they often go against nature and humanity.
They argue that we need to find a way to work for each other and with nature instead of against it, focusing on authentic collectives and
using our human intelligence for the betterment of ourselves and the planet. The speaker also emphasizes the importance of learning from
our experiences and creating contexts that support collaboration and mutual respect. They propose a "liquid democracy" where people work
together naturally and hope to move beyond traditional societal structures like capitalism or communism towards a more harmonious way of
living and being.

Checking arract 06： The G word and the Arguments.
 The speaker is discussing the questions of whether the universe itself is intelligent or more than intelligence, if there was an
intentionally creating intelligence behind it, and the relationship between stories in religious texts and these questions. They argue that
the universe's features suggest it is not a bizarre accident but rather an expression of its nature. They also criticize the idea that
evolution denies the possibility of a divine intelligence or refutes it, as well as the idea that there's no evidence for a universe-as-God
hypothesis. The speaker suggests that living organisms and minds are expressions of the intelligence in which they emerged and that the
relationship between our minds and the biorelational envelope is like what we imagine a God to be. They caution against dismissing these
ideas outright while also being critical of organized religions and dangerous interpretations of religious texts.

Checking mophai 29 ： True powers... are unlike our ideas.
 The speaker reflects on their fascination with stories of powers as a child, and how they were sold technological promises that have
turned out to be crises instead. They argue that true power lies in our own nature as human beings and our relationships with the natural
world, which is far more sophisticated than any technology we can build. The speaker encourages readers to reconnect with their humanity
and experience a deeper connection with others and the world around them, rather than being fixated on supernatural or technological
powers. They suggest that this kind of travel or experience is more exciting and meaningful than any fiction or story.

Checking nembo 71： What Justice Isn’t
 The speaker argues that our legal system and prisons are an atrocity and the results of enacting systems to prosecute and punish
individuals for crimes are not only a significant contributor to societal problems but also ensure that these problems cannot be resolved
by the legal system. They suggest that we should view crimes as signals about our failure to build intelligent, authentic cultures together
and instead focus on resolving the root causes of problems in a relational and intelligent way rather than punishing individuals. The
speaker uses the example of the immune system in the body to illustrate how it responds to threats and signals about problematic
structures, and argues that we should do the same as a society by collectively addressing issues instead of prosecuting and punishing
individuals. They emphasize that we are all complicit in the actions of the legal system through our financial contributions and
membership, and suggest developing a culture capable of indicting itself when necessary to create better systems for resolving conflicts.
The speaker concludes that continuing to prosecute and punish individuals is not only ineffective but also impossible for them to be
responsible for societal issues. Instead, we should focus on understanding the root causes of problems and working together to resolve them.

Checking nemenia 16： the sanctity of local time
 The speaker argues that our concept of time is a human invention, with no correlation to the natural world. Calendars, months, and days of
the week are artificial constructs, and each organism has its unique temporal experience. The relationship between time and living beings
should be recognized as fundamental to our existence, rather than being dominated by abstract metrics. Time in nature is relational and
diverse, with organisms having different heartbeats, metabolic rates, and circadian rhythms. Our bodies and minds are equipped to engage
these temporalities, but the standardized public time can hinder this connection. The speaker encourages reflecting on the importance of
understanding our relationship with temporality as a means to improve intelligence and insight.

Checking orgine 22： the God ：｜： Science Problem
 The speaker argues that the debate between religion and science is misleading as they address different aspects of understanding reality.
Religion often refers to specific models or interpretations of God, while science focuses on observable phenomena and discovering their
underlying mechanisms. The speaker criticizes the notion of selecting an off-the-shelf model of God for belief and argues that true
relationships with the divine cannot be conveyed through books or doctrines. Furthermore, they suggest that science is not about proving or
disproving theories but rather about discovery and progress through negation. The speaker also points out that there were no initial
evidential proofs for scientific theories like quantum mechanics before their discovery and highlights the dangers of rigid adherence to
religious theories. They call for a shift towards direct engagement with the questions and discoveries rather than relying on pre-authored
answers or labels such as atheist, believer, or scientist.

Checking prenonioi 4： Escape Velocity
 The text explores the complexities of human existence, raising questions about our identity, purpose, and relationship with nature, life,
and the world. It contrasts two ways of thinking - evaluative and inventive - and criticizes how our culture often fails to foster human
excellence or development. The author argues that we're constantly influenced by conflicting signals about what it means to be human
through media, education, and social experiences. They call for a shift towards active invention and discovery of our potential as humans,
emphasizing the importance of intelligence and creativity in shaping our lives and relationships with each other and the world. The text
also criticizes society's focus on profit and consumerism, which hinders our ability to understand our true nature and evolutionary
potential. The author invites readers to join them in creating a new context that fosters human growth and development.

Checking rBird 0 ： 1 ⧹ .｜. ⧸ Bbird 1 ： 0
 The speaker is discussing the idea that color and sound carry living information for most organisms on Earth, not just analytical data.
They use the example of red and blue, which have unique properties in light and sound waves due to the Doppler shift effect. Red indicates
departure and decreasing frequency or pitch, while blue indicates approach and increasing frequency or pitch. The speaker suggests that
these colors play an essential role in our physics, language, relationships, mathematics, music, meaning, heartbeats, bodies, and cells.
They also touch on the idea of masculinity and femininity being associated with approaching (red) and receiving (blue) respectively. The
speaker argues that nature signals in multiple dimensions and humans have lost touch with this richness of communication in favor of
mono-dimensional methods. They end by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to explore these ideas creatively.

Checking seraph 12 ： False Projections of Authority, Identity and Relation
 The speaker expresses their fear and nervousness before creating recordings or videos. They relate this fear to the concept of authority
and how it influences humanity's perception of reality and knowledge. The speaker argues that many of our ideas and proclamations come from
fictional authorities, which can be misleading and tyrannical. The solution, according to the speaker, is for individuals to establish true
purposes and come together for them, allowing us to experience the true nature of humanity and intelligence. However, this is often
difficult as collective interests and rewards are frequently dominated by these fictional authorities. The speaker encourages individuals
to look past these false authorities and reconnect with their authentic intelligence and mutuality.

Checking shüsüsh 4： Lucid Waking, Gaps, and Dreaming
 The speaker reflects on the fear they feel when encountering new experiences or ideas, particularly those that challenge their
perspectives or self-concept. They discuss the relationship between dreaming and being awake, suggesting that our waking identity is a
construct based on pivots that are actually rooted in our dreaming mind. The speaker expresses a desire to experience lucidity while awake
and explore the implications of dissolving the fictional pivots upon which our identities are built. They also discuss the fear many people
have of unpredictable living things entering their waking environments, likening it to the fear of the waking self encountering its
dreaming identity. The speaker concludes by expressing excitement for the possibility of exploring lucid waking and the potential answers
it might bring to questions about the nature of reality and identity.

Checking vilifon 15 ： Death, Fear and Rebirth： Coming to Life
 The speaker explores the human fear of death and how it is connected to our fears of coming to life, being born, and shedding fictional
identities. They suggest that we are deeply identified with our histories, stories, and fictions, which inhibit us from truly living and
coming to life. Dreaming is seen as the origin of our minds and intelligence, and we should focus on understanding the waking corollary.
The speaker argues that we seek excitement and extreme experiences in our waking lives as a way to experience the sudden divestment of
fictional associations with ourselves and our minds, but these replacements are not authentic sources or origins. Instead of focusing on
death defying activities, we should find ways to catalyze and follow the process that allows our fictions to become transparent and exceed
them. The promise of human life is terrifyingly beautiful and can be accessed by transforming fear into a door for new birth and
exploration.

Checking vipgotai： 33 Cash, Fashion, Identity
 The speaker reflects on the concept of time and identity, noting how both have been commodified and replaced with abstract representations
such as calendars and cash. They argue that true human connection and understanding come from authentic relationships with nature and other
beings, rather than relying on mechanical systems or abstract concepts. The speaker expresses concern about the disconnect between humans
and living time, urging us to learn how to participate in a living relationship with the natural world and develop a true sense of identity
through service and communion with others. They suggest that we must go beyond our current ways of understanding time and identity, seeking
new ways to relate authentically with nature and each other, and building new contexts for human connection and growth. The speaker
emphasizes the importance of authenticity, intimacy, and co-awareness in our relationships with living things and places, and encourages
readers to reflect on these ideas and seek answers through their own experiences and questions.

Checking yPerion 88： Anomalies, NHI, Hypertopics
 The speaker shares their lifelong fascination with exotic phenomena, including the possibility of contact with advanced non-human
intelligences. They introduce the concept of a hyper-topic, which is a topic that has implications for everything and can advance one's
ability to understand other topics. They use the example of a changing bubble shape called a manifold, which transforms into less dynamic
structures as it extends away from the loop from which it emerges. The speaker argues that all forms of life, mathematics, and even
language can be understood as collapsing the manifold of possibilities into specific instances or derivatives. They caution against
collapsing into derivative concepts and losing sight of the living intelligence that stands above them. The speaker encourages readers to
reconnect with nature in order to discover deeper and more advanced forms of intelligence beyond what is represented by our current
cultural constructs.

Checking ‘There’s No Evidence...” ⧸Medicine, Science Statistics & Knowledge
 The speaker expresses concern about the use of statistics and the interpretation of data in various fields, particularly in relation to
climate change and vaccines. They argue that statistics are generalizations over populations but do not capture the complexity and
individuality of specific situations. They also criticize the selective reporting and suppression of data for financial gain or other
nefarious purposes. The speaker calls for increased transparency and critical thinking when interpreting statistical data, and the
development of systems to verify the validity of arguments and information. They emphasize the importance of recognizing the limitations of
statistics and understanding their implications for causality, identity, and values.

