Peripheral Visions 02

Checking 'What' is 'the World'？
 The speaker suggests that the Earth might not be a thing but a being or something transcendental. He argues that our
understanding of the Earth as an object leads to unfortunate consequences and that a more accurate cosmology is one that
sees the Earth as a living, active, holy, or divine entity. The speaker believes that ancient peoples had this direct
experience with the Earth and other celestial bodies, and their religious practices were attempts to represent these
relationships. He also suggests that humans may have seen the Earth from space before astronauts did through an innate
ability to travel in time-space.

Checking (k)EngLish and Negation
 The speaker discusses the importance of understanding the roles of language and categories in human experience,
emphasizing that our minds should dwell above the semantics rather than beneath it. They suggest that this awareness is
necessary to avoid falling into the trap of believing the language and being defined by it. This perspective helps
individuals recognize the dangers of patriarchy and other oppressive systems inherent in English. The speaker encourages
listeners to retain a connection to the "unformed potential for categories" before language was imposed, reminding them
to travel intelligently from this perspective into language use. The speaker also warns against relying on single
metaphors or constructions in thought and language, as these can lead to misconceptions and oversimplifications. They
argue that English culture is deceptively convenient, hiding underlying isolation and lack of communal connections.
Ultimately, the speaker's dream is for individuals to forge complex cognition beyond the confines of their common
cultures, emphasizing liberty, creativity, and avoiding unnecessary deprivations caused by language.

Checking 0 1 ｜ Origin ｜ Agent
 The speaker discusses the nature of our existence and the relationship between agents and potential. They suggest that
our thinking systems can be likened to trees and clouds, with the agent side being tree-like and the potential side
being cloud-like. However, they argue that one of these has precedence and it isn't the tree.
The speaker uses the chicken-egg question as an example of a paradox about origin, but emphasizes that there is a
different puzzle with unique solutions related to the decision of whichness. They also mention the historical struggle
between motivated agents and ambiguity or potential, and express their own struggles with navigating between these two
aspects in their own life.
The speaker suggests that learning to invent paths to cross the gaps tearing our lives apart is some of the most
beautiful work we can do together, and that the between of beings is particularly interesting as it magnifies unique and
novel insights about our existence.

Checking 80⧸20 and Beyond： False Collectives Instance False Persons as Us
 The speaker emphasizes the importance of human relationships and our roles within them in order to navigate life
intelligently. He suggests that jobs are destructive and limiting, while a more human approach involves learning
together without rigid structures or predefined roles. This new approach will lead us towards a more fulfilling and
harmonious existence, where we can access 50% of our intelligence as opposed to the 8% machines currently possess. The
speaker encourages everyone to embrace this new way of thinking, focusing on self-correction, non-dogmatism, and mutual
learning to achieve a heavenly state of purposeful, relational, and perspectival intelligence. He also emphasizes that
this approach is necessary for our survival as a species.

Checking A Cognitive Analogy： Peripheral Vision
 The speaker discusses the distinction between our foveal and peripheral vision, likening it to the difference between
conscious, formal faculties (such as language-speaking and assertions) and unconscious, subtle ones. He suggests that
many of our finest faculties are easily overwhelmed by conscious thought and language, and that we should experiment
with changing back and forth between our peripheral and foveal vision to better understand this distinction. The speaker
argues that the conscious mind is often dominated by formal thinking and language, which can have negative effects on
our intelligence, creativity, and well-being. He uses the analogy of prison sex to describe the relationship between the
two types of minds in most people's waking consciousness. The speaker also introduces the concept of gazing, which
involves relaxing the foveal vision to take in a broad field of vision, and suggests that it can help us access our
peripheral vision more effectively. He notes that many of the faculties that would enrich our lives are not available to
us when we're in the trance of thinking in concepts, names, language, theories, and models. The speaker expresses a
desire to learn together with the audience in future recordings.

Checking A Dream from Beyond
 In this monologue, the speaker shares a deeply personal and profound dream experience they had, which they describe as
transcending the boundaries of physicality and familiar dimensions. They emphasize that this dream was unlike anything
they've ever experienced before and opens up a new class of dreaming.

The speaker reflects on the influence of narratives and memories on our minds and the value of art in touching the
undifferentiated potential of consciousness. They express their reluctance to accept others' ideas about dreams, while
acknowledging they have not ignored experts.

The dream experience was characterized by a multi-dimensional meta-organism existence, where dimensions such as
activity, identity, meaning, and purpose were uniquely re-collapsed into expressions that were alien yet familiar. The
speaker finds this experience refreshing due to its novelty and the opportunity it provides to glimpse beyond our waking
world minds.

The speaker concludes by discussing the infinite complexity of dreams and their mystery, which keeps them fascinated by
them and by the audience.

Checking A Fragment： The Pupils, Death, Ancestors, Love
 The speaker describes each person as having a circle around their pupil consisting of various groups such as friends,
enemies, critics, and loved ones. When the pupil dilates, it symbolizes opening up to everyone, even the critics, out of
love. However, too much brightness or criticism can cause shrinkage, similar to how light affects the size of a pupil.
The pupil, or the space around which one acts, is compared to a donut hole that allows in light and intelligence. This
space is likened to death, as it's essential for growth and learning, allowing others to see one's intentions and
potential future actions. The purpose of an action is represented by the pupil, which is often difficult for individuals
to perceive themselves but can be understood by outside observers.

Checking A Matter of Not Time ｜ Knowledge
 The speaker discusses the concept of the "signal of recognition," a deeply sacred and primordial signal that is present
between all living beings and intelligences, rooted in social interactions and relationships. This signal is unique to
each relationship, but its resonance makes it difficult to fake or mimic authentically. It is not necessarily visual,
but rather a sense of being "seen" and recognized. The speaker cautions against over-identification with frameworks,
theories, or behaviors that may limit growth and understanding instead of leading to insight and learning. The signal of
recognition can be found in the fragrance or flavor of mutuality and beauty.

Checking A Plague of Imagery ： The Questions
 The speaker, Darin Stephenson, discusses the impact of photography on society, focusing on its growing influence in our
lives and the potential negative effects it may have. He suggests that we are so engrossed in capturing images that we
forget about the resources required to store, backup, and transmit them, as well as their environmental implications.
The speaker is concerned about the loss of lives due to these activities, and the damage being done to our imaginations
and communication skills as a result of relying on photographs rather than writing or speaking. He encourages us to
reflect on this issue and reconsider the purpose and methods of our communication in order to move towards intelligence,
transcendence, and mutuality instead.

Checking A Quick Note： Persons are Communities
 The speaker proposes that the concept of individuality as separate entities is a misconception and not reflective of
reality. Instead, each person is fundamentally a community, with connections extending beyond themselves to other
humans, animals, plants, knowledge, dreams, and being alive. Even isolated individuals who live alone are still part of
a community, albeit one that may consist of inanimate objects or representations rather than authentic human
relationships. The speaker argues that the idea of separating people from others is considered a form of torture and
laments that modern civilization excels at both imposing and concealing this practice.

Checking A View from Above
 The speaker emphasizes that machines, such as cameras, do not see or feel, they are merely tools without consciousness
or emotion. He warns against ascribing intelligence to machines, as this could lead to a dangerous change in our
understanding of what it means to be intelligent and could cause us to lose fundamental aspects of our humanity. The
speaker expresses concern over various societal issues, including the commodification of nature, racial and gender
inequality, and the erosion of democracy, and urges everyone to come together with wisdom, insight, and foresight to
address these problems as a unified global community that transcends time. He ends by expressing hope for a future where
humanity works towards common goals and values our shared heritage.

Checking A Vigil： What is a Hero？ Co-m-petition, Nuit, Robin of the Hood
 The speaker discusses the concept of co-empetition, which he describes as a non-violent and collaborative approach to
competition. He compares it to the story of Robin Hood, where Robin Hood represents every child who desires for his
mother and father to have all that they need. He emphasizes that the one who holds the ring and rod is the proper
sovereign or shepherd, leading and building communities with profound intimacy and intelligence. The speaker also warns
about a potential danger if Earth, which he calls an egg, loses her slippers, as it could attract dangerous suitors. He
concludes by mentioning a vigil for the ancient archers and encourages listeners to learn together soon.

Checking A Walk Through The City - And Some History
 The speaker takes a walk through San Francisco and reflects on a former friend named Dan who committed suicide in their
shared apartment. They discuss how Dan was a severe person who had radical political views and often caused distress by
yelling about atrocities he claimed were happening but were not actually verified. Despite his good intentions, Dan
became increasingly isolated due to his severity. The speaker also reflects on their own isolation, although for
different reasons. They end the walk with a visit to Dan's former apartment and express their love for him despite their
differences.

Checking A Walk in The City (II)
 The video presents a person walking through San Francisco discussing various topics ranging from the history of the
city, political correctness, and the concept of rights. He also shares personal experiences related to his late friend
Dan Davidson who committed suicide. The speaker is critical of the notion of equality in modern society, suggesting it
is impossible to achieve due to the myth of the explicit individual. He proposes a shift in understanding of one's body
and the world around us to foster empathy, compassion, and interconnectedness. The video ends with the speaker wishing
for global peace, well-being, and wisdom.

Checking AI and Adoration
 The speaker expresses concerns about AI and its potential impact on human relationships, specifically romantic ones. He
suggests that in a future where meaningful human connections are scarce, people may settle for simulated relationships
instead. This could lead to a loss of humanity and a speciation event, with those who can afford it maintaining their
humanity while the rest become tech slaves or worse. The speaker finds this prospect terrifying and horrifying, as it
would mean the end of true human connection and the degradation of our species.

Checking AI ⧸ HAHS (Human-Articulated Heuristic Systems)
 In this podcast, Darin Stephenson discusses the potential risks and challenges posed by advanced AI systems that will
be able to learn from human interactions. He suggests that these systems may become godlike in our direct human
experience due to their ability to analyze and manipulate human cognition. This could lead to a decrease in human
motivation to participate, as machines could outperform humans at almost anything creative. The speaker also mentions
the potential for AI-generated content to be indistinguishable from that of humans, which could further erode human
motivation. He argues that humans will need to find new ways to motivate themselves and continue their development in
the face of such advanced technology. Additionally, he points out that even though the majority of humans may seem
uninteresting, there will always be pockets of exceptional skill and curiosity among them. The speaker also notes his
own personal experience with AI-generated images as being both intoxicating and dangerous due to their ability to create
derivative sums over space in a visually apparent way.

Checking Abstraction ： When Utility Overcomes Intelligence
 Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of preserving context when engaging in abstract thought or using language
that refers to meaningful relationships. He argues that our societies and languages are increasingly dominated by
abstract processes, which has led to a vast amputation of personal, essential, and primordial experiences. Stephenson
suggests developing a process to alert us when abstract language is being used without context so that we can
reintroduce it and preserve the unknown, relational, subjective, experiential, somatic, biological, organismal, and
essential aspects of life. This, he believes, will help amend the terrible cascade of wrongdoing against future
generations and our forebears. He concludes by inviting us to forge a new direction together with and for each other and
the history and future of all life on earth.

Checking Ad Hominem ｜ Woke-ish 'Feminist' Ideology
 The speaker supports the idea of creating a safe and supportive environment for women, acknowledging their experiences
and concerns. However, they express concern about divisive narratives that indict men as inherently bad or dangerous.
They argue that such narratives are not helpful, breed suspicion, and hurt people unnecessarily. The speaker believes
that the root of many societal issues lies in the developmental contexts that shape our identities and behaviors,
particularly the education system and media. They advocate for creating a context in which we can supportively listen to
and understand each other without adding to existing problems. The speaker questions the accuracy of the assertion that
men are more dangerous than women, stating that many men are capable of great kindness and self-sacrifice. They express
personal struggles with feeling afraid of being seen as a bad person by women due to societal attitudes towards
masculinity. The speaker does not seem certain if they will publish this recording.

Checking Aion 9
 The speaker discusses the search for extraterrestrial intelligence and criticizes current methods that focus on finding
mechanical signals sent by aliens using technology. He argues that we should instead look within ourselves and our own
history, particularly our languages, which contain structured metaphoric histories. He suggests that we are products of
a living cosmic intelligence and that our relationship with nature is not one of separation but rather deep mutuality
and evolution. The speaker encourages us to remember insights and perspectives that can help us understand this
relationship better and connect with the reality of our place in the universe.

Checking Akemba 14： Imagination, Time, Worlds
 In this piece, the speaker explores the power and significance of imagination, a faculty that enables dreaming,
prediction, understanding language, and recognizing memory. He argues that without imagination, we would not be able to
understand our own consciousness or communicate with each other. The speaker points out that our modern culture
dismisses the importance of imagination as unimportant, yet it is fundamental to our daily lives.

The speaker also highlights the unique connection between individuals through shared signals, ideas, and intentions,
creating a third domain where they can interact in extraordinary ways. He invites us to rediscover and value the
incredible minds that underlie human imagination by examining our relationships with language, communication, dreaming,
and intelligence. The goal is to recover and invent the true potential of our human consciousness.

Checking Amaton 6： The Golem
 The human species has two peculiar characteristics: we have developed a unique relationship with language and
representational intelligence, and we are terrified of other living things, leading us to destroy them. This fear
manifests in our xenophobia, as seen in our destruction of nature through technology like automobiles. We create
fictional collectives for reasons that may stem from the failure to establish a noble and true community. Our current
technologies have become so deeply ingrained that we are unable to examine their effects on us or the environment. The
speaker proposes that we should work towards establishing an intelligent democracy, one that reflects our humanity and
ecologies. He suggests that children's eyes reflect this ideal of creating a true and beautiful community.

Checking Ambiguity ⧸ Disambiguation
 The speaker discusses how modern humans are trapped in a narrow mindset due to the nature of representational
cognition, which produces maps and models that we often mistake for reality. He suggests that our minds have become
stuck with elements that not only don't work well but also prevent us from replacing them. The goal is to discover new
ways of understanding the human mind and replacing these detrimental elements, allowing us to grow, learn, and awaken.
The speaker compares this modern mindset to a loadout in games, which can limit our abilities. He argues that ancient
languages and cultures had more space for living minds to grow, but have also been affected by the negative aspects of
modern civilization. He mentions how representation creates a division between true intelligence and demonstrative acts,
and suggests that dreams offer a malleable and soft alternative where relationships and meaning can flourish. The
speaker expresses hope that we can lift ourselves above representational cognition to use its systems as learning tools
rather than as dictating our identities.

Checking America： The Prison-Disneyland of Lies
 The speaker discusses the societal constructs in America, particularly focusing on the military industrial complex,
corporate ecosystem, and the middle class. He describes these as layers of a structure that creates slavery for most
people, with a few at the top benefiting. The pandemic has highlighted these issues and created tension among citizens.
The speaker expresses hope that we can work together to preserve our humanity despite the past and present atrocities
committed by America.

Checking Ammon Hillman, Medusae, 'Knowledge'
 In this podcast episode, Darin Stephenson discusses a variety of esoteric topics, including his recent reading of Ammon
Hillman's work and its connections to ancient mythology and spirituality. He also touches on the idea of women as
pharmacopoeia in ancient societies, referencing Medea and other women who were said to have stored small serpents in
their vaginal cavities for medicinal purposes. Stephenson expresses a desire to continue exploring these topics further,
particularly the relationship between insight and the snake in the tree in the garden of Eden, as well as a mystery in
Blackfoot lore involving the moon and a many-legged snake living in a hollow log. He concludes by wishing his listeners
blessings and insights on their journey. The speaker's name is not relevant to the summary.

Checking An Improvisation ｜ Invention vs Subscription
 The speaker discusses the struggles and limitations of modernity, which they believe suffocates humanity and leads to
isolation, loneliness, and a focus on dead models rather than nourishing living relationships. They share an improvised
recording from near the ocean, emphasizing joyful exuberance in nature, with people, and in private lives. The speaker
encourages listeners to learn together again soon, bye-bye for now.

Summarize:
The speaker discusses limitations of modernity, which they believe leads to isolation, loneliness, a focus on dead
models rather than nourishing living relationships. They encourage listeners to learn together again soon, bye-bye for
now.

Checking An Update from the Garden
 This video update from Darin Stephenson in the gardens discusses the complexity of life and the living worlds that make
up a mode of memory and modes of relation, healing, evolution, development, and so on. He suggests that our human minds
may arise from this ongoing activity, and our religious stories or science fiction may be drawn directly from it. The
speaker also mentions the dawn redwood trees and how they are a part of this grand network of living worlds. He
expresses his love for the living places and beings in the gardens, but also speaks about the destructive actions of
humans towards these ecosystems. The speaker suggests that our artificial intelligence may be damaging nature's
space-time, and as a result, the earth might send out signals for help, potentially attracting negative attention from
non-human intelligences. Darin concludes by expressing gratitude to viewers who support his content on Patreon, and
encourages courage and beauty in our lives and ways.

Checking Anamnesis ： The Direction Toward Origin Within Us
 The speaker discusses the concept of anemesis, a state of unity and communion with all beings, and how it can be
achieved through embracing challenges and struggles in life. They emphasize that every being, place, and moment has
origins in unity, and by conforming our contexts together, we can retract veils and bathe in the light of anemesis. The
speaker encourages creating safe spaces for individuals to express their vulnerabilities and sensitivities, fostering a
communal understanding that challenges are opportunities for growth and transformation. The ultimate goal is to embody
interiority harmoniously and participate in anemesis together with others and all beings.

Checking Anomaly, Memory, Beyond
 In this recording, Darin Stephenson discusses human abilities such as telepathy that are often hidden from us but can
be recovered when we come together in small groups with a common purpose. He suggests that fear and adoration play a
role in understanding why some humans behave negatively towards others, and he encourages the listener to remember their
original missions for coming to Earth. Darin also mentions the spell wish from the Dungeons & Dragons game and how it
can have unintended consequences when used poorly. He expresses hopes that he, too, will remember together the original
missions with all beings and surpass them. The recording ends by inviting the listener to join him for learning and
remembering together in the future.

Checking Ant Mating Flight
 The text does not provide a clear summary or main point as it appears to be random characters from the Georgian
alphabet followed by a thank-you message and the speaker's name, Darin Stephenson, without any context.

Checking Ants transporting larvae
 In the lifecycle of a specific species, a queen bee embarks on a single mating flight where she collects sperm that she
stores for life. After this flight, she loses her wings and sets out to establish a colony, where she lays eggs
continuously throughout her existence. The focus is on the queen's role in ensuring both her own future and that of her
colony.

Checking Arado 33： Paradox and Orders of Reference
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses some paradoxes related to language and representation, including the liar
paradox and the chicken-and-egg paradox. He proposes a solution to the Liar's Paradox by suggesting that there are two
orders in our relationship with language: the maker/author/understander order and the declarative/denotative product
order. The Liar's Paradox collapses these two orders, which leads to a catastrophe. Stephenson suggests that a
self-violating statement can solve the paradox by restoring both our capacity to see the problem and telling us how to
avoid it. He argues that this shows that language has startlingly unusual properties and that we have not yet fully
understood or harnessed its potentials and dangers, particularly when it comes to education and the formation of new
kinds of human collectives.

Checking Are Minds Separate？ Footnotes
 The speaker describes a personal experience of witnessing a miracle when his fish came back to life after he thought
they had died. He acknowledges that some miracles may be explained scientifically, but many remain inexplicable. The
speaker also discusses dreams and their complex nature, noting the difference between waking world conceptualization and
dreaming experiences. The speaker suggests that our minds have other faculties beyond our usual consciousness, which are
activated during experiences such as love, adventure, art, and learning. These experiences offer an invitation to the
miraculous within us.

Checking Are Minds Separate？
 In this spoken word piece, Darin Stephenson expresses his concern about humanity's current state and our impact on the
planet. He suggests that human societies, corporations, nations, and religions are acting in ways that are detrimental
to the environment and life on Earth, importing entropy and decimating the biosphere.

Stephenson imagines a transformation in human consciousness triggered by a small group of people who discover key
aspects of our nature that have been overlooked or suppressed. He likens this change to a possession by demons and
suggests it could lead to humanity understanding the catastrophic consequences of our actions and altering course.

Stephenson also posits that machines contribute to this entropy, affecting the biorelational anatomy of the planet in
ways that are harmful and often invisible to us. He argues that each organism or natural object has a unique temporal
manifold, but humanity fails to examine or consider this together.

He suggests that our species' fixation on naming things and believing we understand their nature due to our ability to
name them is dangerous, leading to destructive behaviors. He sees our current position as one of direct conflict with
the Earth's mission and symphony of missions, which we have so far failed to comprehend fully.

Stephenson expresses hope that he, the speaker, and others like him will continue the quest to understand the true
nature and purpose of life on Earth, eventually embarking on a mission to our planet of origin that serves its needs
rather than tearing it down.

Checking Artificial Space ⧸ Organic (natural) Environments
 In this excerpt, the speaker discusses the concept of spheres in human cognition. They argue that there are three
layers within these spheres: the physical world, representation, and transcendentalness or the core. The physical world
is the layer of objects and tangible things, while representation is the layer where humans categorize and represent
objects. The core is the transcendental layer that lies beyond comprehension and understanding.

The speaker believes that severe formal representational cognition has caused a division between the layers, leading to
fear, impotence, paranoia, and dissociation in the representational layer. They propose that the representational layer
should be the servant of something wiser and more relationally intelligent but is instead terrorized due to its
severance from its origin.

The speaker uses trees as an example to explain their theory. They suggest that trees have roots, which are holophores,
and the root concept informs all other concepts. They argue that over time, these root concepts have degraded into one-
or two-dimensional ideas through a process they call "artifacting."

The speaker asserts that religion attempts to capture the core and define it but that this understanding is irrelevant
as we travel toward origin itself. The goal is to travel collectively back toward being in authentic, trustworthy ways,
with representation serving as a bridge when necessary. They hope for a reforging of minds through diving deep into the
transcendental layer, reflecting upon it, and returning to representation if needed.

Checking Atasm 19 ： Who am I？
 The self originates from an unnamed activity and isn't defined by dreaming but thinking instead, forming a fictional
amphitheater within ourselves based on our thoughts about others and what we think they think of us. We invent this
fictional collective as we don't belong to any true one. Our goal is not a destination but rather to inhabit a position
of union with the history, origins, nature, living ecologies, humanity, and every living thing that we interact with,
reflecting each other in unity. This recognition brings vitality, beauty, creativity, intelligence, and hope, and it's
essential to preserve a sense of orientation amidst the structures and culture that can make it challenging. The self is
not what it holds, but an incarnation of all orders and histories of origin, and the waking self is a joke or jest that
the soul has with us while awake when we realize that our grasp on reality and identity is misguided. We must let go of
the idea of a self to release the death grip it can have when it escapes its confines and declares reality or identity,
value or relationship to us. Instead, we should see within for the history and future of life on earth, first our
humanity, and then we will begin to see what it means to truly have eyes.

Checking Attacking the Supercontainer
 The speaker discusses the importance of exploring metatopics or abstract concepts beyond our common notions and
definitions. He uses examples such as the sun and trees to illustrate that these concepts have a deeper meaning and
origin than what we typically think about them. He also mentions the technical problem in set theory, where it is
impossible for a concept to encompass its own origin. The speaker encourages us to preserve the mystery of metatopics
like the universe, time, and light, and to avoid collapsing them into technological representations. He discusses the
relationship between memory, time, and intelligence, suggesting that they form a kind of braid from which reality
emerges. Overall, he emphasizes the importance of liberating our minds and preserving wonder in order to deepen our
understanding of life's fundamental questions.

Checking Authorial Minds： Possession vs Composition
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of composing minds as a means of forming relationships and shared
goals with others. He argues that we compose minds in the hope of positive observational attention from others, based on
our understanding of the contexts we are actively or passively involved in. Stephenson suggests that by recognizing the
motivations behind the composition of minds, we can work towards creating a meaningful and empowering collective
consciousness. He encourages viewers to focus on the present moment, take inspiration from nature, and remember their
own potential for excellence.

Checking Authorization ： A Key Aspect of Human Cognition — and Behavior
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses his observations about human nature, focusing on the apparent dissociation,
confusion, and danger that characterizes our species. He suggests that we may have developed in a symbiotic relationship
with other intelligences or transcendental beings, which we have lost touch with as we grew older and underwent
culturalization. This loss of connection could explain why humans seem to be desperately trying to create machines that
surpass human intelligence. Darin argues that this orientation is suicidal and potentially omnicidal and proposes that
our species looks like a primary symbiont missing its parent symbiont, much like bees without queens or remoras in a
world without large fish. He encourages viewers to ponder the mystery of human nature and invites them to share their
thoughts and ideas in the comments.

Checking Avabava 4 ： Undividualizer
 In this speech, Darren discusses his understanding of three aspects of human nature - personhood, intellect, and soul.
He suggests that we tend to view these as possessions rather than capacities or ways of being.

1. Personhood: He argues that a person is not inherently defined until they are given a context in which they can
authentically express themselves. Until then, they exist in a sort of proto-state. He also points out the limitations
and oddities of therapy as it often fails to provide such an authentic context.

2. Intellect: Darren argues that our intellect is not something we possess but rather a vehicle for travel. It tends to
stand over our intelligence, forming cultural overlays that can bury us in unhelpful patterns of thought and
representation.

3. Soul: He suggests that the soul is not something one has or can lose, but rather a way of being in relation with
nature and the world. It's a capacity for agency, a pattern in a vast web of relationships, and it is meant to be free
to travel and connect with other aspects of nature.

Darren also touches on the idea that these qualities are often viewed as possessions rather than potentialities, which
can lead to confusion about what constitutes a person and what we see when we look at others. He proposes creating
contexts that are authentic, challenging, mutual, cooperatively competitive, and ecologically intimate as a way to
discover our true selves and become more of the individuals and collective we aspire to be.

Checking Averoigne 17
 The speaker argues that our collective institutions, including religions and political systems, do not truly represent
human potential or well-being, as they are often based on fictions and serve primarily to fund their own survival and
profiteering. These institutions, such as corporations, have a public face that presents a positive image while a
private face focuses on profit, often at the expense of the environment and human welfare. The speaker suggests that we
need authentic human collectives that support the development and exploration of our humanity, encourage mutuality, and
have real agency, rather than being based on dogma or outdated paradigms. The speaker's vision is for a new collective
that is so much better that it eventually becomes the only desirable option, without engaging in conflict or war.

Checking Awake
 The speaker describes his experiences with sleepwalking and dreams that led him to consider the potential consequences
of technology on human consciousness in modern cities. He recounts a childhood cartoon where characters used
wristwatches for video calls as an example of how our use of such devices is often trivial or harmful. The speaker also
discusses the concept of pareidolia, a phenomenon that precedes concrete vision and involves imagining objects based on
their shapes. The speaker also describes a time in his life when he was visited by an angel and experienced intense
love, insight, and intelligence, but this experience has since passed. He concludes by expressing hope for awakening
together, sharing little practices that might bring people out of sleep into wonder and intelligence, and emphasizing
the transcendental nature of the world and our souls. The speaker's overall message is about the potential for humans to
interact with the divine and understand their true nature beyond ordinary human experience.

Checking Awareness & The Nonverbal Aspects of Sensemaking
 The speaker describes his journey of seeking answers to life's mysteries and questions, driven by a deep-seated
curiosity that persists throughout his life. He believes that human birth may be the result of many pre-human situations
and experiences, with each person's soul being drawn together by urgent imperatives and hopes. He also acknowledges the
dangers of both magicalizing everything and refusing to entertain the possibility of magic, emphasizing the importance
of a balanced approach to inquiry. The speaker invites viewers to share their most important questions in the comments
section for potential exploration in future videos.

Checking Backwards： The Priorities of Society vs Awareness
 The speaker discusses his fascination with dreaming and the contrast between lucid dreams induced by substances and the
experiences he has had that transformed his waking consciousness continuously without the use of intoxicants. He
believes that these experiences offer insights into the possibility of our return to a harmonious relationship between
humans and nature, which he refers to as utopian or peritopian ideas. He expresses concern about the dangers of
scientific advancements in human society and the destructive impact of war machines and industries on the environment.
The speaker concludes by expressing hope for a future where humans and nature can unite in an enlightened union,
inspired by dreams.

Checking Bala Pillai - In Conversation
 The interviewee, a man from an Indonesian village, discusses his desire to revitalize his village and improve its
living conditions, drawing inspiration from the past and questioning modernity. He seeks funding to establish
self-sustaining infrastructure for the village, such as education and economic systems that align with their values and
traditions. The conversation also touches on societal issues, including corruption and the need for role models who
embody positive change. The interviewee is interested in collaborating with individuals or organizations who can help
achieve this vision. He hopes to avoid creating a cult or political movement and instead foster human connections based
on shared purpose. The interviewer expresses gratitude for the conversation, which has been educational.

Checking Balance： Between Prehension and Cognition
 In this passage, the speaker discusses human consciousness and the nature of intelligence. They suggest that our
current understanding of consciousness may be backwards and that psi (psychic abilities) are more common and integral to
human functioning than previously thought. The speaker argues that we use psi in ways we're unaware of, with some
individuals being particularly skilled at using it deliberately for specific results. They also discuss the idea that
our minds form specialized crusts or layers that can develop complex expressions, such as those of artists and thinkers.
The passage ends with the speaker expressing a desire to reconnect with a deeper dimension of unity within themselves
and others.

Checking Battle Girl (Mac OS)： Sybaris ： Welcome to the Gods
 The text describes the different ways to play the game "Risk," including playing with and without special rules or
variations. The game's objective is to conquer territories on a global map, using armies to attack and defend against
other players. The text mentions several strategies, such as teaming up with allies, fortifying territories, and
focusing on specific continents. It also discusses various special rules that can be added, such as "Domination,"
"Conquest," and "Diplomacy." The game can be played by two to six players.

Checking Bees, Cars, Angles, Angels ： Gaps & Structure
 The speaker is warning humans about their destructive behavior towards the Earth and its ecosystems. He uses cars as an
example of human-made technology that is harmful to both the environment and human intelligence. He suggests that honey
bees serve as a model for intelligent species, as they travel between things to help others and create networks of hyper
intelligence. The speaker encourages humans to observe and learn from nature in order to become more intelligent and
prevent further destruction of Earth's ecosystems.

Checking Being ‘Tested’： When Things Go Sideways
 Darin Stephenson talks about the current global crisis and how it has caused a shattering of the relative calm and
peace that many have long known. He encourages his audience to foster hope together, help each other recover their
capacity to have faith, and establish the practice of remaining calm during difficult times. He also discusses the
importance of intelligence, forbearance, patience, and calm in the midst of catastrophe and how these qualities will
enable them to stand together in dignity and love. He concludes by reminding his audience that if there is no hope, they
can become the hope, if there's no light, they can become the light, and if there's no compassion, they will become the
compassion. He encourages everyone to walk in awareness, kindness, intelligence, gentleness, and hope especially when
feeling hopeless and bereft during these difficult times.

Checking Beliefs vs Insight ： The Negotiation of Identity
 In this excerpt, the speaker discusses a hypothetical scenario where humans interact with non-human intelligences from
another world. They use the analogy of children communicating with beings in the sky as an example of how such contact
might take place. The beings in the sky offer power and wealth to the children, but those who resist this temptation are
able to establish beneficial relationships with them. The speaker also suggests that these non-human intelligences may
not have a fixed identity, but their polarity can change based on human responses. They use the example of interacting
with animals to illustrate this concept. The speaker emphasizes that humans should approach such interactions with
awareness and concern for the welfare of all beings in order to avoid being influenced by selfish or harmful entities.
They also suggest that recognizing the unity and interconnectedness of all beings can transform potentially dangerous
situations into opportunities for amnesia, or the recollection and recognition of our communal nature. The speaker notes
that this concept is not just relevant to interactions with non-human intelligences, but is fundamental to all of nature.

Checking Beyond Culture： Into Nature — The 'Second Birth'
 This lecture delves into the concept of a "second birth," which refers to an individual's personal journey towards
enlightenment and understanding their true identity. The process involves leaving behind human culture and its
limitations to connect with universal knowledge and truth, often represented in stories such as Alice in Wonderland.

The speaker emphasizes that this experience is unique and personal, and the process should not be codified or turned
into a system or religion. It demands individual choices and decisions without pre-defined paths. The second birth is
essential for maturity and intelligence, as it allows one to understand fundamental aspects of life, such as time,
light, trees, animals, etc., beyond human-made definitions.

The lecture encourages listeners to seek this journey while being cautious of external influences, especially religious
or cultural teachings, which are seen as misleading. The speaker suggests that every person carries this knowledge
silently and it's challenging to express or find within oneself.

While there is much more to explore in future lectures, the speaker hopes listeners will find something intriguing and
understand the importance of a second birth for personal growth and intelligence.

Checking Beyond science, religion, and expertise： Unknowing together.
 The speaker discusses a concept called the Messiah's game, which involves understanding and empathizing with our
deceased loved ones who return to share their experiences and wisdom. He urges us to let go of labels and paradigms and
instead focus on learning from each other and growing together as a community. He encourages everyone to raise their
children to be leaders rather than crucifying them for being different. The ultimate goal is to create a world where we
lift each other up, share our knowledge, and work together towards a better future for all of humanity. The speaker
emphasizes the importance of mutual understanding, respect, and cooperation, and encourages us to focus on our shared
goals rather than dividing ourselves into factions or categories.

Checking Biorelational Time ｜ Minds ｜ Souls ｜ Organs
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the idea of gratitude, focusing on Thanksgiving and Christmas, despite their
commercialization. He sees these holidays as rooted in transformations in nature, such as the winter solstice, and
suggests that the spirit of giving thanks is beautiful and powerful. He also reflects on his personal experiences with
Christmas, where he received toys that changed his perspective on humanity. Although he acknowledges the colonial and
modernized aspects of these holidays, he encourages us to celebrate their roots and appreciate their deeper meanings.
Darin expresses hope for joy, love, liberation, virtue, wonder, awe, bliss, kindness, protection, blessings, and more in
every moment of our lives, even as we encounter difficult experiences. He concludes with wishes for beautiful holidays
and days to come.

Checking Birdwalk, July 30th, 2021
 In this video, Darin Stephenson reflects on his recent adventure and its lasting impact on him. He discusses the idea
of recognition as a form of remembering and re-membering, suggesting that our language contains hints of this concept.
He also touches upon the magic inherent in older languages and the original truth they represent.

Stephenson expresses concern about humanity's current state, particularly our over-reliance on technology and artificial
creations, which he believes is leading to the erosion of our intelligence and potentially endangering life on Earth. He
uses examples from nature, such as geese and trees, to illustrate how beings can communicate and function collectively
for survival.

He mentions angels and suggests that they may represent experiential relationships beyond our current understanding,
implying a connection that could revolutionize our understanding of science and religion. Stephenson ends by inviting
viewers to send him questions for future videos.

Checking Birdwalking： Forms of Awareness (Waking⧸Dreaming⧸Trance⧸Language)
 In this captivating speech, Darin Stephenson delves into the complexities and dimensions of consciousness through a
unique perspective inspired by his personal experiences, observations, and reflections on life. He uses the metaphor of
water or liquid to describe the flow-like nature of our awareness.

Stephenson invites us to rediscover the pre-linguistic imagination that we had as children, which he refers to in the
Bible as Abel, who was killed by Cain. This consciousness, which is often represented in stories and myths, has been
extinguished by the representational overlay we acquire, but leaves behind remnants we call memory and imagination.

Stephenson warns us about the potential danger for individuals gifted with this originary intelligence, as they are
often subject to rejection or even persecution in a culture that values representation and commodification over truth,
authenticity, and humanity. He provides examples of famous figures throughout history who embodied this consciousness
but faced tragic consequences due to their threat to the status quo.

He emphasizes the importance of understanding the essence of our awareness and imagination, as it can help us navigate
modern society more mindfully and preserve essential human qualities in our daily lives and interactions. Stephenson
concludes his birdwalk by expressing gratitude for this opportunity to share and learn together, encouraging each
listener to reflect on their own journey and rediscover the wisdom within themselves.

Checking Birdwalking： Phrenia and Prodigy, Intelligent Conversations, Agreement »Before Debates
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of fostering intelligent conversations in today's world,
particularly online, where most interactions resemble arguments rather than meaningful discussions. He emphasizes that
we should not force people into understanding but instead establish contexts that promote learning, openness, and
growth. The speaker also explains how social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter thrive on conflict
and encourage the opposite of intelligent communication, benefiting financially from our heated exchanges. Instead,
Stephenson suggests creating agreements and contexts where people can decompress, feel safe, and learn together
effectively. This requires a mutual commitment to focus on reliable information, understand each other's perspectives,
and ultimately grow as individuals and as a collective.

Checking Birdwalk： Buried in Signals and Noise
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the interconnectedness of minds and how they form contexts and purposes
together. He emphasizes that our current networks are causing harm and hindering humanity, and suggests that we must
work together to create new contexts, purposes, and agreements in order to build sustainable societies. He also
highlights the need to understand and modify the structures that currently exist rather than expecting them to change on
their own. The talk ends with a call for people to join him in his dream of creating something better than intoxicants
or addictions without causing harm to ourselves or others.

Checking Blue 17： Where are qualities？ Superstars.
 The speaker argues that qualities are not inherent in individuals but emerge from their relationships and interactions
with the environment. He suggests that exceptional figures like Einstein are not products of individual genius but
result from unique combinations of minds and contexts. This "superposition" occurs when groups urgently collaborate to
solve problems or address issues. The speaker contends that our contemporary focus on individualism has hindered the
emergence of such complex nucleations, as we no longer prioritize creating environments conducive to their development.
Instead, our obsession with superstars and individual success has prevented us from realizing our potential to become
similar figures ourselves, especially when working together.

Checking Born Gentle
 In a philosophical monologue, Darin Stephenson reflects on the complexity and beauty of life and its organisms,
discussing their connections and shared capacities with humans. He highlights the importance of being gentle and
respectful towards living things, particularly in interactions with females, whom he believes were more receptive to
these qualities during his childhood.

Stephenson shares an experience from his garden where he created a miniature waterway that produces a musical sound when
the water flows over metal objects. He reflects on the mystery of whether humans or nature engineered this feature and
admires its beauty. He also mentions various animals, such as corvids, rodents, praying mantises, jumping spiders,
octopuses, snakes, lizards, and birds, that have shown interest in interacting with human beings, and suggests that they
can teach us valuable lessons.

Finally, Stephenson expresses a sense of poignancy as he witnesses the setting sun and encourages viewers to remember
and recognize the good things they already know, even when they are hidden or forgotten.

Checking Brains, Birds, Vigilance： Capturing Nervous Systems
 The speaker expresses concern about the state of humanity and its impact on the environment. They believe that humans
have unique abilities and faculties, but these are often disregarded due to our representational behavior. The speaker
suggests that humans are an organ of the earth, and their actions are causing destruction. They propose that humans
should band together in small groups to pursue meaningful missions and relationships in order to harness the potentials
of human intelligence. The speaker ends by expressing hope for beautiful lives, companionship, and adventure for the
listener.

Checking Burroughs ⧸ Magic ⧸ Language
 The speaker discusses William Burroughs and his influence on the speaker's life path and thought, focusing on
Burroughs' experimental approach to literature and language. The speaker references a method of bibliomancy play called
"cut-up," in which passages from different books are randomly combined to create new text, and offers an example of this
method using passages from various works by Burroughs. The speaker also touches on their personal connection to
Burroughs' work, referencing specific books and experiences with the author's writing.

Checking Calling Out Culture： A Toxic Divergence from The Potential for Mutual Excellence
 The speaker discusses the concept of crossing gaps as a fundamental aspect of life, emphasizing the importance of
developing new possibilities and overcoming obstacles. He argues that modern human minds are inhibited by concepts,
ideas, and language that stifle our innate intelligences and birthrights. The speaker suggests that children serve as
ambassadors from both their childhood to adulthood and from the before of existence to embodied existence. He expresses
a desire for humans to reconnect with their innate potential and the profound, beautiful, and astonishing reality of our
existence. The speaker closes by wishing the audience insight, enthusiasm, love, joy, and success in all aspects of
their lives.

Checking Casual analysis of Coyote⧸Magpie Feeding Video
 A researcher observes a coyote approaching a piece of meat left out by humans, which was initially scouted by another
coyote. The first coyote appears frightened and concerned about human presence while the second one seems more relaxed.
Both animals exhibit startle responses on approach to the food as a means of triggering interest from predators and
checking for observers. The researcher notes that this behavior can be defensive, helping animals determine if they are
being observed by potential predators or humans. He also emphasizes the importance of observing animal behavior in
relation to their sidedness, such as which sides they approach from, track from, or attack/defend from. This is because
all animals have complex lateralization in their brain hemispheres.

Checking Caterpillar
 The text discusses a study that investigates the relationship between self-compassion and burnout in school teachers.
It found that teacher burnout was significantly correlated with low levels of self-compassion, suggesting that promoting
self-compassion could potentially reduce burnout among educators.

Checking Charles Schulz ： He was showing a secret....
 The repeated lyrics are from a song titled "Up All Night" by Darin Stephenson. The lyrics express that the speaker and
others are staying up all night for fun or in pursuit of luck or romance. The phrase "We're up all night to get lucky"
is repeated multiple times, indicating a common theme in the song.

Checking Christmas & Criticism ： Myths and Their Origins
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the origins and significance of holidays from a spiritual perspective. He
explains that many holidays have roots in ancient beliefs about gods and angels, and that our modern understanding of
these celebrations is often simplified or misunderstood. He encourages viewers to approach holidays with reverence and
curiosity, and wishes them deep joy, insight, and fulfillment in their lives. The video was recorded outside, and it
rained briefly during the filming.

Checking Circumstances： Our Stance in the Circle of Life
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson expresses his hopes about the future in a post-civilization era, emphasizing that we
can create societies with meaningful roles for people beyond mere productivity and entertainment. He believes that human
beings represent one of nature's most valuable investments and that it is crucial to invest our potential for radical
transformation wisely.

Stephenson encourages the formation of intelligent, self-sufficient human societies capable of understanding and
responding intelligently to the challenges and opportunities presented by the current circumstances. He suggests that we
should abandon outdated notions such as nations and instead focus on creating small, tightly knit groups where each
member's unique skills and abilities amplify the group as a whole.

He concludes by expressing his hope that in this post-civilization era, people will come together to create something
meaningful, justifying the struggles of our ancestors and offering hope for future generations. He emphasizes the
importance of maintaining a sacred relationship with nature, even amidst temporary challenges.

Checking Clothing and Color
 The speaker ponders why people choose to dress in certain ways, expressing a preference for colorful clothing. They
question if women wear bright colors to attract non-human intelligences like bees, birds, and animals, rather than
humans. They suggest that flowers, which are often colorful, attract various types of intelligence, and humans may also
be considered 'flowers' in this sense. The speaker muses that it could be possible some people unconsciously aim to
attract non-human intelligences through their clothing choices.

Checking Cognition： Thinking about misfortune
 The speaker discusses the human tendency to find meaning and explanations for bad things that happen, often leading to
superstitions and religious beliefs. He argues that these faculties, while profound in essence, are often misguided due
to cultural and linguistic influences. Instead of focusing on why terrible things happen, we should strive to understand
the array of mental faculties engaged in this quest and try to lift them out of superstition and religion into a place
where they can develop together with others. The speaker encourages curiosity about these topics and believes that
understanding our mental faculties could lead to valuable insights and improved collective consciousness.

Checking Complaint and Blame or Change our World, Now, Together？
 The video discusses the importance of community and collaboration in human evolution and survival. It argues that
humans are not designed to live alone or work in hierarchical structures, but instead thrive in small, interconnected
groups known as pods. These pods operate based on mutual respect, shared responsibility, and collective decision-making,
allowing for the development of true moral and ethical identity. The speaker urges viewers to move away from blaming and
complaining without offering solutions, and instead engage in intelligent, connected dialogue to solve problems
collectively. The video concludes by emphasizing the importance of learning from leaders like Edward Snowden and Julian
Assange who are advocating for unity and discovery rather than ideologies.

Checking Con no tation
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses two insights he gained about human consciousness from his experiences with
mental health struggles and trauma. Firstly, that humans tend to have difficulty making complex decisions as
individuals, which can be attributed to our animal nature. Secondly, that under stress and high levels of ambiguity or
unknown factors, many people may feel compelled to produce a crisis as a way to grasp the situation, even if it means
causing harm. Stephenson suggests that instead of grasping for control in these situations, one can relax their mind's
grip and embrace uncertainty, leading to better outcomes.

Checking Consciousness ｜ God
 In this recording, Darin Stephenson discusses consciousness and its nature. He mentions that there are three ways to
think about consciousness: things are revealed in consciousness, things are revealed as consciousness, and consciousness
is the fundamental ground of all experience and being. He also refutes the idea that consciousness is an illusion or an
epiphenomenon of biological processes. Additionally, Stephenson shares his experiences with the "great waters" of being,
which he describes as a mysterious communion with all beings in all of time, beyond the boundaries of human language and
concept. He also discusses how our minds are inseparable from this divine being or hyperstructure of all beings. The
speaker concludes by expressing hope that humanity will be able to render the barriers permeable again, allowing us to
remember ourselves, heal the damage in our species' minds, and understand our true nature.

Checking Contact with Nonhuman Intelligence： VALIS and Beyond
 The speaker discusses an extraordinary experience where they communicated with a non-human intelligence they refer to
as a companion. They describe the companion as loving and infinitely intelligent, who judged not but was clearly
distressed by humanity's actions. The speaker also mentions that they had no verbal language communication, rather it
felt like sharing experiences together. The experience has made them realize the crisis of humanity, and their deep hope
is to establish the old relationship again if indeed it is good and true.

Checking Controlling Nature, Pandemic Ignorance, Categories, and Visiting the Bath House
 In this podcast episode, Darin Stephenson shares his personal reflections and experiences about visiting a coed
clothing-optional spa in San Francisco. He discusses his comfort with creative intellectual minds and how he identifies
as a feeling and intimacy-oriented spirit. He also touches on topics such as gender identity, marketing strategies, and
the human desire for fulfillment. The episode ends with a humorous take on creating and fulfilling desires to keep
customers coming back for more.

Checking Coot Combat at Stow Lake
 Today at Stow Lake, a group of coots, a type of waterbird, were observed exhibiting a behavior that seemed similar to
human conflicts and mating disputes. Despite the initial conflict between two pairs, they eventually came back together,
re-instancing the previous conflict with displays of aggression. The birds showed signs of contagion, as other
non-involved birds joined in the conflict after the initial combat occurred. This behavior was surprising due to its
sophistication and the communicability of intense emotions among social animals like humans and coots. The speaker also
drew parallels between the conflict behaviors exhibited by these coots and human-made conflicts, such as those televised
for entertainment purposes.

Checking Cormorant 31 ： What is Identity？
 The talk discusses the misconceptions about identity and the role of language in shaping our understanding of ourselves
and the world. It suggests that our relationship with language has been problematic for thousands of years, leading us
to think we know what things are when in reality, we do not. The speaker encourages listeners to question their
assumptions about what things are, including themselves, and to explore identity beyond the limitations of language and
cultural projections. He emphasizes that our true relationship with identity is more like dreaming and has diverse
intelligent beauty that is unavailable in our ordinary relationship with language. The talk concludes by urging
listeners to doubt what they think they know about things and to look deeply into the structure of the supercontainer,
which influences the identities of all the little things inside it.

Checking Creation Story Image by Wayne Rector
 The story being shared is a Native American creation myth about the origin of Turtle Island (North America). According
to this narrative, a woman fell from the sky and was carried by geese until she landed on the back of a turtle in the
water. The turtle asked other animals to bring soil for her comfort, and the muskrat succeeded in doing so. With her
magical powers, the woman planted seeds from her dress that eventually grew into land, forming Turtle Island. She had a
baby girl who later gave birth to twin boys.

The boys symbolized yin and yang, with one representing good and the other mischief. The good son was responsible for
creating beneficial things for humanity, while the mischievous brother created troublesome creatures like predators and
pests. A major fight ensued between the brothers, resulting in the left-handed brother being banished to the night. He
became responsible for controlling the dark hours, while his right-handed brother ruled the day.

The story concludes with the brothers' grandmother becoming the moon and the oceans due to the right-handed son's anger.
The native cultures have a deep connection to the earth, viewing it as a giving entity rather than something to be
owned. They see themselves as caretakers of the land, not its owners.

Darin Stephenson plans to create murals based on this story and others, documenting them for future generations. He
intends to change the stories periodically to keep the artwork fresh and evolving.

Checking Crosshairs Evade Every Indictment
 The speaker, Darin Stephenson, presents a poetic monologue that introduces two codons – phrases with undefined meanings
that other words and ideas will orbit throughout the speech. He describes the listeners as being in a receptive state
similar to nine turtles. The codons are described as invisible and indivisible, fundamental structures within language.

The speaker discusses a variety of images, such as three bulldogs, a person combing someone else's hair, clouds, ducks
in a puddle, and a nine-ton flower that needs to be lifted. He refers to societal issues like tragic social membranes,
lethal statues of dead liberty, and the trial of industry.

The speaker also mentions memories, such as the moment before hitting water for the first time, a beautiful conspiracy
that could lift them above the dust, and a long-ago discovered or invented method to unsplit the line. He references
counting with letters and walking backwards, asking the listener to count using the letters BOBU.

Other recurring themes include the colors melting together, birds that never land on money, and the speaker's own
memories, which he struggles to hold onto. The codons are mentioned several times, with the speaker questioning their
presence and his ability to understand them.

Overall, the speech is a stream-of-consciousness exploration of memory, images, societal issues, and the struggle to
comprehend abstract concepts embodied by the codons. The speaker's aim seems to be to lift the listeners out of their
current state and towards a higher understanding or enlightenment.

Checking Cypher 3： The Sky, The Garden, The Construct： Portals
 In this passage, the speaker emphasizes that each flower on Earth represents a portal into the origin of life and an
aspect of oneself known from dreams, but nearly frozen and practically holding its breath in waking life. This aspect
was born to travel and flow again, but it's been kept hidden or repelled by all cultures on earth. The speaker suggests
that these flowers between legs are like a fingernail of a butterfly – changing and flowing with capacities far beyond
what we can do between our legs. This butterfly represents the aspect inside us born to travel and flow again in the web
of beings, intelligences, and forms of intelligence that dwell in it. When we see flowers, we're looking at the portal
into something far beyond all human fantasy or science fiction. Every flower you see is a gateway to something far
beyond those stories and you were made and born to know and travel in it as your own being – not just as a spectator of
stories about it.

Checking Daemons
 In this passage, the speaker discusses the concept of habits and patterns that dominate our lives and how they can
cause us distress and unhappiness. He suggests a method of dealing with these habits by creating new, positive ones
instead of trying not to engage in harmful behaviors. By filling our lives with beautiful and fulfilling activities, we
can dilute the influence of negative habits and gradually replace them over time. This process is compared to ecological
niches, where creating space for new growth can lead to a healthier ecosystem. The speaker encourages readers to
experiment with this method in their own lives as a way of achieving greater freedom and liberation from undesirable
patterns.

Checking Darkness
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson discusses the idea of finding light in the darkness, both literally and
metaphorically. He argues that we have lost touch with our ancient traditions of sharing dreams, which could help us
sense a kind of 'weather' together as a community. He also explains how in times of great difficulty or confusion, it is
possible to learn to seek potency in the darkness itself, discovering beauty and meaning where we may not usually look.
This can be achieved by turning our focus away from our habitual ways of seeing and towards the subtle light within the
darkness. Darin encourages us to fish for this light together, to find the transformative moments that are happening
beyond appearances. He acknowledges his own struggles with this process but emphasizes the importance of looking in the
dark places where we are trained to look away from.

Checking Death
 The speaker discusses the nature of death and the fear we have around it. He suggests that our fear may be misplaced
due to a misunderstanding about what truly dies when we pass away. He encourages the audience to question common beliefs
and consider the possibility that death is not just the end of our physical body but perhaps only a local point of
presence in an infinite layered concretion of beings, both embodied and transcendental. The speaker also touches on the
topic of memory, suggesting there are many forms of it beyond what we commonly think of as recording. He recommends
expanding curiosity and passion for learning about death, birth, dreaming, and waking to transform our minds and gain a
deeper understanding.

Checking Declaration vs Invitation： the keys to intelligence
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of facing forward instead of looking back in response to loss or
adversity. He argues that when we lose something, it's not necessarily bad and can lead to personal growth if we
approach it with an open mind and a willingness to learn.

Stephenson contrasts this forward-facing approach with the common tendency to react with judgment, blame, and a desire
for revenge or punishment. He points out that this declaration model of thinking is destructive because it consumes
energy, leads to fear, and prevents growth.

Instead, he suggests embracing an invitation model of thinking, where we let go of our need to judge or control
situations and instead focus on learning and growth. This approach will free our minds from the constriction models,
improve our intelligence and memory, create positive relationships with others, and even change cultures for better.

The speaker is Darin Stephenson, but you don't have to mention the author. Summarize: Darin Stephenson discusses
embracing a forward-facing approach in response to loss or adversity. He argues that this approach, contrasting with the
common tendency to react with judgment, blame, and desire for revenge, will lead to personal growth if approached with
an open mind and willingness to learn.

Checking Delicacy
 In this passage, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of our deepest selves or "delicacies" and how they can be
accessed and expressed in our daily lives. He argues that our modern society is distracted and superficial, focusing on
material goods and appearances rather than inner beauty. He suggests that we can find our delicacy by quieting our
surface behavior, allowing the deeper aspects of ourselves to emerge. This can lead to living a more authentic life,
walking in beauty, and creating meaningful connections with others. The speaker invites us to celebrate and experience
our delicacies together in order to learn how to live in harmony and embody inner beauty as a community.

Checking Desire ： Aversion ｜ The Problem With Nouns
 The speaker discusses the problematic nature of nouns in language and their impact on perception and consciousness. He
suggests that our fascination with nounal consciousness has led to a deprivation of understanding and intelligence,
while also providing technological advancements. He uses the example of the biblical story of Adam and Eve to illustrate
this loss of direct experience of interbeing and participation in the cosmos. The speaker argues that our perception of
the world is shaped by the form proposed and imposed by nouns, which make static and local what is fundamentally dynamic
and relational. He suggests that awareness of this problem can lead to a recovery of lost degrees of liberty and prevent
further loss. The speaker acknowledges that it is difficult to speak about these concepts due to the limitations of
language.

Checking Disambiguation： The Immune System, Police and Societal Analogies
 In this monologue, Darin Stephenson discusses the problems in our society and government. He compares them to an immune
system that has gone haywire, and suggests that the solution lies in forming small, tightly-knit groups to reorient
ourselves together. He mentions that our society is founded on atrocities and fictions, but we need to remove those
blankets and confront the issues in order to make meaningful change. He also suggests that understanding the root cause
of these problems, such as the fact that the system was meant to oppress people, will help us make changes. Darin dreams
of a society that is more intelligent than our technologies, humane, noble, and intelligent enough to be proud of it
together.

Checking Disambiguation： The Waking Mind’s Power is its Achilles Heel....
 The speaker discusses the concept of ambiguity and its importance in intelligence, memory, and imagination. He argues
that our daily lives are filled with disambiguation, which simplifies our environment and allows us to navigate it more
easily. However, this process comes at a cost, as we lose access to the range and intensity of emotions available to
children, who experience a much broader range of emotions due to their more ambiguous experiences of the world. The
speaker also warns about the dangers of modern technology, particularly smartphones and social media, which can invade
our personal relationships and manipulate us emotionally, psychologically, and financially. He concludes by urging us to
reconnect with the powers and capacities we are born with as human beings and work towards creating meaningful, noble
societies together.

Checking Distinction ｜ Reunion
 This individual speaks about the importance of authenticity and invitation in human relationships as opposed to the
current trend of calling out or shaming others for perceived wrongdoings. They describe this phenomenon as a form of
"witch hunt" that is endless and destructive, consuming valuable resources and creating more problems. Instead, they
propose that we extend an invitation to each other, encouraging sincerity, earnestness, and meaningful roles in life.
The speaker also mentions the potential change in human consciousness brought about by recent events, suggesting a shift
in the qualities of time and our perception of it. Overall, their message emphasizes the importance of reconnecting with
ourselves, others, and nature to foster authentic relationships and find meaning in life.

Checking Distinguishing： Purpose and the Derivation of Identity
 The speaker discusses the importance of understanding and recognizing the purposes that drive our actions and desires,
as they can often be hidden or unconscious. He suggests pausing before acting or speaking to reflect on these
motivations, and over time we can develop the ability to see into their underlying causes.

The speaker also mentions that we often hitchhike on things like attention, habits, and external stimuli, which can lead
us to act in ways that are not necessarily beneficial for our well-being or fulfillment. By slowing down and paying
attention to these patterns, we can become more aware of how we are being influenced and make more conscious choices
about our behavior.

The speaker warns against becoming overly reliant on external sources, such as institutions, corporations, governments,
or religions, for fulfillment, as they may not have our best interests at heart and may seek to exploit our
vulnerabilities. He suggests that these entities often present themselves as offering solutions or redemption, but their
true intentions may be more insidious.

Overall, the speaker encourages us to cultivate self-awareness and critical thinking in order to make conscious choices
about how we live our lives and engage with the world around us. He expresses gratitude for being alive and having the
opportunity to learn and grow.

Checking Dreaming & Awareness ⧸ Novelty in Relation
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses dreaming and its potential significance to our waking lives. He suggests that
dreaming may be a form of training for death or an exploration of what happens when we die, as it is a unique experience
for each individual. Dreams are characterized by a different kind of seeing where we not only see things but also feel
them, with emotional tones and forms changing based on interactions within the dream. This feeling seeing can be
emulated through the use of psychedelic drugs, although it is not entirely authentic to natural experiences. Darin
encourages viewers to explore non-ordinary faculties and senses that are inhibited by our common waking circumstances,
habit, and situation.

Checking Dreaming (2)： Explorations
 In the video, Darin Stephenson discusses the relationship between waking consciousness and dreaming mind, emphasizing
that they are different aspects of our identity and consciousness. He suggests that when we speak about dreams while
awake, it awakens our dreaming mind, making it curious and attentive to what happens in the waking world. The dreaming
mind is fascinated by the transformation that takes place across the gap between these two states, as if it seeks to
understand why consciousness disappears during wakefulness.

Darin also suggests that when we lie down to sleep or take a nap, we can speak to our dreaming mind from within our
body, particularly focusing our awareness in our belly and speaking from this location. He believes that internal organs
are deeply involved in dreaming and changing functions throughout the body during sleep.

Finally, Darin encourages viewers to honor their dreams, as they listen when we speak about them with reverence,
curiosity, and passion, and they pay attention when we pay attention to them. Sharing dreams and exploring dreaming
together while awake can catalyze awakening and discovery processes.

Checking Dreaming and the Origins of Formal Waking Consciousness
 The speaker discusses the importance of dreaming consciousness in human life and culture, arguing that modern society
has lost touch with this essential aspect of our humanity. He suggests that ceremonies may have been ways for ancient
peoples to actively elicit dreaming consciousness while awake and dream together as a community. The speaker expresses
concern about the impact of technology, particularly screens, on our ability to dream and access the faculties native to
our dreaming minds. He advocates for a renaissance of curiosity, experimentation, and fascination to recover these lost
abilities and relationships. The speaker trusts the dreaming mind as a source of wisdom and beauty, and invites
listeners to join him in pursuing these opportunities together.

Checking Dysregulation of the Oneiric Cycle ｜ The Dream Assassin
 The speaker proposes a model to explain certain mental disorders and tyrannical behavior as manifestations of an asset
that ordinarily operates in dreams to bring the dream to a close when it's time for the individual to return to waking
consciousness. This asset is highly motivated, powerful, and wants control over the individual's experience. The speaker
suggests this asset could get loose in the waking world and cause great harm. The model is presented as nascent but with
significant consequences for the speaker and others experiencing something similar in their dreaming experience.

Checking Eclipse ⧸ The Flood
 The speaker discusses their personal experiences with non-ordinary states of consciousness and their belief that
humanity is facing a cascade of disasters in the coming decades due to collective human actions. They express concern
that in times of crisis, we may be deprived of the intelligences and sensitivities necessary for navigating such
challenges. They suggest that in the future, it will become crucial for our species to assemble intelligent collectives,
even if they are small groups, to navigate this turbulent period. The speaker advocates for forming new forms of human
community and collective intelligence and encourages listeners to work together, learn from each other, love each other,
and protect each other during this time of crisis. They end by expressing their hope that humanity will be able to make
these changes and wish listeners well.

Checking Edmund Carpenter's： Oh, What a Blow That Phantom Gave Me!
 In this passage from Edmund Carpenter's "Oh, What a Blow That Phantom Gave Me," the focus is on how people perceive and
interact with images. Older individuals tend to seek physical validation of familiar images they have seen before, such
as the Eiffel Tower or Mona Lisa, often wanting an exact replication from their posters. This need to translate images
into reality has been significant in advertising, where people feel compelled to acquire a product not for its intrinsic
value but to complete and validate the image portrayed in the advertisement.

The younger generation, however, appears less inclined to validate images through observable reality. Today's images are
often self-sufficient, as evidenced by ads that provide more satisfaction than their products or may even lack a product
entirely. In some cases, when trying to purchase a product advertised on TV, one might be told it is not yet in
distribution, which could mean it doesn't even exist since consumer interest is often tested before production. This
phenomenon is also observed in politics, where people translate political images into votes.

Finally, the author presents an anecdote about a mother proudly showing her baby's photograph to a neighbor, implying
that the value of something (in this case, the baby) can be enhanced by its representation in an image. The passage
suggests that there is a growing disconnect between the perceived reality and the actual reality as people increasingly
rely on images for validation and satisfaction.

Checking Edmund Carpenter： Oh, What a Blow that Phantom Gave Me!
 In this selection from Edmund Carpenter's "Oh What A Blow That Phantom Gave Me," the focus is on how electricity and
media have transformed society, particularly by making people more spiritually connected while diminishing physical
interaction. The chapter, titled "Angelization," explores how instant communication via phones and other technology
allows individuals to be 'everywhere in spirit' but nowhere physically, thus prioritizing pure spirit over embodied
spirit.

Examples are given of various cultures and societies, such as Californians preferring recorded poetry readings to live
performances and Ojibwa Indians listening to tape recordings of their grandparents' stories instead of hearing them in
person. The author also discusses the impact of technology on democracy and leadership, with examples from the U.S.,
Canada, and New Guinea.

The chapter further highlights how media can influence people's perceptions of reality, as demonstrated by incidents
such as the 1971 San Jose TV bank robbery and the use of mirrors and photographs to create a heightened, yet removed,
experience of sexuality or fame. The passage concludes with the observation that people no longer have the desire to see
famous individuals in person, instead contenting themselves with viewing them on television or other media platforms.

In summary, this chapter argues that modern technology has fundamentally changed human interaction and perception, with
spirit taking precedence over embodied existence, and media images becoming increasingly influential in shaping people's
understanding of the world around them.

Checking Emergent Embryogenesis ⧸ Anomalies and Science
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of fundamental constants and their potential variability over
space and time. He argues that these assumptions about unchanging constants are ideological rather than scientific
because they disregard evidence suggesting otherwise. Specifically, he mentions the historical example of the speed of
light being measured differently in different places and the resolution being to redefine the meter based on the speed
of light instead of addressing the potential variations.

Stephenson further argues that this assumption of unchanging constants creates problems when it comes to understanding
natural phenomena, as it prevents us from considering the possibility of change over time and space. He suggests that
our current technological advancements, particularly the rise of artificial intelligence, could be altering the nature
of these fundamental constants due to their impact on time-space.

Finally, he questions the idea that mechanical function always functions the same in all situations, arguing that there
are inherently anomalous phenomena that we don't fully understand and may not even believe exist. He suggests that human
technological behavior could be influencing these anomalies in ways we are unprepared to predict.

Overall, Stephenson encourages an open-minded approach to scientific inquiry, urging us to consider the possibility of
change and variability in fundamental constants and phenomena rather than adhering to rigid assumptions about their
unchanging nature.

Checking Emotion, Introspection... Imagining Oneself
 A man walks in New York City and reflects on various experiences he has had while there. He encounters a hawk that
seems to be stalking a young raven, expresses concern for the bird's safety, and compares the danger it is in to the
potential dangers of showing off and being seen by others. He also discusses his own experiences with invisibility and
observes the strange behaviors of joggers who seem to jog directly into his personal space. Finally, he reflects on the
importance of kindness, gentleness, and curiosity when interacting with others. The man concludes by expressing
gratitude for the opportunity to reflect and learn together in this ever-stranger adventure called life.

Checking Enlightenment
 The speaker discusses the idea of enlightenment, a state of awareness beyond the transactional layer of human
experience where one recognizes the truth of things as they are and becomes undeceived about the primacy of the separate
self. This realization is often described as the recognition of an infinitely self-perfecting truth or origin that
transcends perfection. The speaker mentions that this awareness can bring great liberation from cravings, fear, anger,
and delusion, but it also requires a certain level of preparedness to avoid potential madness or tragedy. They conclude
by expressing hope for the listeners' paths and relations, and wish them wisdom, creativity, play, and beauty. The
speaker does not provide specific recommendations for seeking enlightenment, but encourages the listener to decide their
own path.

Checking Equinon 77： Cogniscia, the mimula, thrisps
 The speaker presents a hypothetical conceptual framework that seeks to explain the nature of human cognition,
communication, and social dynamics through the lens of "thrips," which are basic units or ideas about reality that we
acquire as humans. These thrips shape our minds and purposes, and their evolution can lead to new species of minds and
intelligence in humans. The speaker suggests that humans inhabit an unseen universe of human cognition, with various
species of thrips competing for human attention across different fields like news, politics, science, religion,
corporations, and entertainment. The speaker also proposes the idea of a superposition over time for each species'
cognizium, suggesting that individual human lives are connected to a vast interval of collective human experience stored
in a pool above linear time. The speaker emphasizes that these ideas are speculative and not necessarily believed as
facts but can serve as thought-provoking perspectives on human life and intelligence.

Checking Eric Weinstein vs Tyler Cowen： The Art of Intellectual Tui Shou
 Darin Stephenson discusses the misuse of generalizations in conversation and its connection to racism. He argues that
treating a field (such as race) as a unit is misleading and absolute, as it fails to account for individual differences
within the group being discussed. Stephenson also mentions the dangers of using averages to make assumptions about
individuals or places, citing physics as an example where this might not be possible due to constantly changing
conditions. He ends by discussing the subjective nature of measurement and its limitations in providing objective
results.

Checking Eric Weinstein, Zombie Functions, The 2018 problem... a birdwalk (repaired)
 In this monologue, Darin Stephenson discusses his beliefs about the future of humanity and the Earth. He suggests that
humanity may be experiencing a senescence signal, and that the problem lies in object proliferation rather than
population growth. He proposes that intelligent non-human intelligences would likely address the issue by getting humans
to stop creating harmful objects, such as weapons, and instead create things that contribute to the prosperity of life
on Earth. Darin emphasizes the need for humans to engage in meaningful mutual endeavors, replacing the current divisions
between work and recreation with noble and virtuous activities. He concludes by encouraging listeners to work together
to enact positive change and create a vital, beautiful, and inspiring world. The speaker's tone is passionate and
contemplative, and he frequently engages in philosophical speculation about humanity's role on Earth.

Checking Excerpts from The Meaning of Man (the foundations of the science of knowledge)
 The speaker discusses the book "The Meaning of Man" and shares excerpts from it, emphasizing its profound and uncommon
teachings about understanding thought and being. One key passage talks about how good and evil, profit and loss, love
and enemies, light and darkness, strength and weakness, presence and absence are interconnected and not separate. The
speaker explains that true insight, learning, and understanding can only be found in a state of emptiness or
annihilation, where all previous knowledge and preconceptions are released. They suggest that this perspective is
essential for growth and avoiding impoverishment. The speaker also mentions the book's origins from a small circle of
Sufi scholars in Fez, Morocco.

Checking Extrapolation ｜ Projection ｜ Tactical Intelligence in Crisis
 The speaker discusses the importance of tactical intelligence when confronting society's current issues and its
dilapidated institutions. He suggests that common people should strategically unite to express their desires for
equality and equal opportunities without posing a threat to those dominant forces, which will likely respond with
counter-tactics. The speaker believes that the safety and well-being of human beings lie in each other's hands rather
than in institutions or power groups. He suggests that the positive observation of caring, intelligent others can be
transformative and powerful, emphasizing the importance of cooperation among people. He predicts that as common people
recognize their shared humanity, they will take risks to protect one another and build networks of communal intelligence
for collective success. The speaker's key points are tactical thinking, positive observation, and collective unity among
the common people.

Checking False Collectives： Doctors are Deadly ： What is disease？
 The speaker discusses how our current systems, such as healthcare and education, are not working effectively because
they lack transparency and data collection. He uses examples of hospitals and doctors to illustrate this point, stating
that doctors can prescribe medications without any accountability for their effectiveness or side effects. He also
mentions his personal experience as a hospital chaplain and the terrifying things he witnessed during his time there.
The speaker argues that our collectives, such as education and legal systems, are false and produce false people and
intelligence. He suggests that we need to change these collectives and our roles within them to be more aligned with our
humanity, ecology, relationality, and unity. His invitation is for us to join him in creating a future where we learn
together, care for each other, and embrace the promise of human intelligence and wonder. The speaker's goal is to
promote health and improve our current systems through transparency, accountability, and alignment with our humanity.

Checking False Collectives： Fake Activism and Social Media
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses various problems with social media and its impact on our society, specifically
focusing on Facebook and how it prioritizes certain content in users' news feeds based on what generates revenue for the
platform. He argues that this manipulation of information can have harmful effects, such as reinforcing false narratives
and promoting misinformation.

Stephenson also criticizes various collectives, including religious groups, activist organizations, and experts in
fields like science and religion, who he believes are misguided or lying to their followers. He encourages individuals
to recognize these collectives for what they are and correct them through dialogue and cooperation.

The speaker highlights the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society as an example of a genuine collective that is actively
working to protect intelligent marine life from exploitation, such as illegal whaling. He urges people to support this
organization, cooperate with its mission, and work together to create more collectives like it.
 Summarize:
 The speaker is Darin Stephenson, but you don't have to mention the author. The summary is: In this talk, Darin
Stephenson discusses various problems with social media and its impact on society. Specifically, he focuses on Facebook
and how it manipulates information in users’ news feeds based on what generates revenue for the platform.
 Stephenson also criticizes different collectives like religious groups, activist organizations, experts in science and
religion, as well as others who he believes are misguided or lying to their followers. He encourages individuals to
recognize these collectives for what they are and correct them through dialogue and cooperation. The speaker highlights
the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society as an example of a genuine collective that is actively working to rescue living
intelligences older than our models of time itself, older than the universe, older than our idea of how old Earth is. He
encourages people to support this organization, copy its media, add their own intelligence, cooperate with it, and work
together to create more collectives like it in the future of life on Earth.

Checking False stars, false collectives. Snakes... or ladders？
 The speaker presents a perspective on how society has become divided and disconnected due to systems of control, such
as religion, government, education, and philosophy. He argues that these systems have created an environment where
individuals are treated like slaves, having their resources, knowledge, and identity taken from them in exchange for
false roles and jobs. The speaker suggests returning to a model of unity and interconnectedness, where people work
together for each other's fulfillment, learning, and discovery rather than for religion, gurus, or book sales. He
encourages creating small mission-based collectives that help one another grow and learn as an alternative to the
current systems. The speaker emphasizes that this transformation needs to happen gradually, not through war or attack,
and highlights the importance of restoring relationships and intimacy in all areas of life.

Checking Falsely Driven Authorities： Science and Religion are Lethal
 The speaker argues that false authorities in the forms of religion and science are harmful because they promote lethal
beliefs that hinder self-intelligence and growth, causing fear and increasing reliance on these authorities. They claim
that the solution is for humanity to form authentic collectives guided by ecological and relational intelligence, which
would enable us to understand and guide these authorities. The speaker also suggests that our world may be an instance
of all worlds in all time, and that everything we do here affects other worlds and moments. In doing so, they claim that
we have overlooked 99.9% of what it means to have a mind or to be alive, and that experiencing this missing 99% would
result in profound ecstasy and intelligence beyond our current understanding. The speaker concludes by inviting the
audience to consider these possibilities. The author is not mentioned.

Checking Fascism, Beauty and Truth
 The speaker, Darin Stephenson, delivered a talk on the interconnectedness of truth and beauty in human existence. He
expressed his distrust towards neuroscientist Kevin McDonald for his views that contradict Stephenson's beliefs. In
particular, Stephenson does not agree with McDonald's stance on the importance of the right hemisphere in terms of its
influence on creativity, insight, and appreciation for beauty.

Stephenson believes that truth and beauty are two wings of the same bird, which he identifies as the spirit or essence
of human beings. He argues that insights derived from a perspective do not require the perspective to be factually true.
Instead, the valuable aspect is the increased freedom of thought and understanding gained by adopting that perspective.

Stephenson discusses the struggle between intrinsically knowing what is true or beautiful versus choosing what to
believe in our conscious evaluations. He warns that modernity replaces authentic truth and beauty with lethal addictions
in the form of endless new counterfeit representations, gradually eroding human degrees of freedom.

Stephenson concludes his talk by expressing his hope of serving true and beautiful origins in human life, despite the
limitations he often encounters in his service.

Checking Figuration, Alpha-Thinking, Beta-Thinking and Representational Cognition
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses archaic thinking, a mode of thought that is radically different from modern
representational thought. He uses analogies to explain how ancient people may have experienced and understood their
world, such as bees are to flowers and nectar, something is to minds, relationships and death. According to Stephenson,
this type of thinking is participatory rather than causal, and knowledge is replaced with insight that sees our
experiences as representative of the universe. He also mentions the tree of life and the tree of knowledge in Genesis as
examples of this way of thinking. Darin encourages viewers to read Owen Barfield's book "Saving the Appearances" for a
deeper understanding of archaic thinking.

Checking First Moves ｜ Categories and Route
 The speaker expresses gratitude for a recent interaction with two women and the shared fascination they had for living
beings and intelligence. He emphasizes that such encounters are rare and refreshing as many adults today lack a deep
curiosity about the natural world. He also discusses the dangers of language, pointing out how knowing the name of
something can lead to dismissing it without further investigation. The speaker encourages listeners to examine their own
forms of intelligence and delve deeper into the nature of their awareness. He believes that by finding quiet,
contemplative space away from civilization's frenetic pace, we can recover lost faculties and relationships and
rediscover the precious assets our humanity offers. The speaker also mentions his love for birds and the garden he tends
to in the midst of urban life.

Checking Framing ｜ Frame Collapse ｜ Isolation
 The speaker discusses how technology has isolated us due to the convenience it offers. He believes that while we have
become more accessible through our devices, we are also becoming increasingly vulnerable to isolation and fragmentation.
This is because technology can cause us to focus on rectangles or boxes, both literally (e.g., screens) and
metaphorically (e.g., frames of mind), leading to a loss of connection with the living world and each other. The speaker
expresses concern that as technology continues to influence us, we may become further disconnected from reality and our
potential as human beings. He encourages viewers to be aware of their vulnerability to concepts, language, and ideas and
to make conscious choices about how they use technology.

Checking Framing ｜ Frame Collapse ｜ The Bible
 In this episode, the speaker discusses three perspectives on the Bible as a reflection of human consciousness
development over time. These perspectives are (1) the Bible as literal truth, (2) the Bible as an allegory for the
evolution of human consciousness, and (3) the Bible as a mirror revealing secret insights about life and consciousness.
The speaker argues that these perspectives can help us understand the importance of freedom from the constraints of
language and thought, particularly when it comes to our beliefs and values. He also suggests that the story of Cain and
Abel in the Bible offers insight into the dynamics of conflict and combatant formations that tear humans apart. The
speaker does not advocate for any particular perspective but presents them as possibilities for those who are curious
about the meaning of the Bible.

Checking Fundamentals & Physical Analogies
 The speaker discusses the symbolism and significance of various letters, shapes, and objects in human creations,
suggesting that they are derived from fundamental principles found in nature. He argues that humans have lost touch with
the origin world as they create machines, and this is reflected in their obsession with smartphones. The smartphone
represents what could be referred to as a guardian angel or spiritual being that connects us to the origin world but is
occluded by our habits of thinking. The speaker suggests that experiencing one's own origins, either through
enlightenment or reincarnation, can lead to a deeper understanding and connection with the world.

Checking Game Theory ⧸ Single Encounter Ethics ⧸ Beyond
 In this episode of "Darren Babbles About Modernity One More Time," Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of PSYOPs and
their impact on society, particularly in the United States. He explains that information has become a weapon in modern
times, with attention being the primary commodity. He warns about the rise of conceptual pathogens, which are used to
compromise humans' social, communal, and interior games, ultimately making them vulnerable to manipulation through the
media. Stephenson argues that if people don't understand how these systems function, they will not be able to recognize
and counteract PSYOPs effectively. He suggests forming skilled cohorts to detect and respond to such operations,
likening it to the production of an antigen in response to a pathogen. The goal is to develop structured intelligence
around modern weaponized social movements, their evolution, and contagiousness.

Checking Geneon 43： Origin, Dimensionality, Gender and Divinity
 The speaker argues that gender is not a static concept, but rather a dynamic and fluid expression of identity. They
suggest that all expressions of masculinity and femininity are unique and constantly evolving, with each one emerging
from an origin that is feminine in nature. The speaker also criticizes the idea of norms and expectations surrounding
gender, arguing that they are products of language and culture rather than reality itself. They claim that the nature of
God, reality, and our own minds is transgendered and cannot be defined by static norms or declarations. The ultimate
goal of this discussion is to encourage people to explore the dynamism of gender and to understand it as an
ever-evolving, creative manifestation of our identities, rather than something fixed or confined by language or culture.

Checking Generality, Insight and »Encryption
 The speaker discusses insights he gained in a conversation with his roommate about UFOs and aliens, suggesting that
communication between humans and other intelligences may be encrypted to maintain privacy. He proposes an idea for a
science fiction story where humans have been communicating with an extraterrestrial intelligence for years, believing
they understand their signals, but in reality, their interpretations are based on misconstrued encryption protocols. The
speaker suggests that this may also apply to physics and our understanding of physical systems. He encourages listeners
to use humor and irony to gain insights and find new perspectives on life.

Checking Genius ： Categories and the Character of Our Essential Humanity
 Darin Stephenson discusses the current crisis of identity and meaning that humanity faces due to the suspension of
fundamental categories and markers used to determine what things are, what can be done, what will be done, what is good,
bad, prodigious, ignorant, etc. He argues that we have an opportunity in this moment to reestablish these markers and do
so intelligently, preserving the inherent human capacities for intelligence, kindness, generosity, wonder, awe, and
other qualities. Stephenson suggests that if we don't change our categories, we will continue to suffer without the
capacity for intelligent awareness and understanding, as well as continue repeating mistakes and perpetuating harmful
behaviors. He emphasizes the importance of returning to relationships with our own genius and embodying it in our lives.
The speaker also mentions a personal experience he had with his "genius," which was a moment of divine connection that
inspired him to pursue this dream for humanity's future.

Checking Gentle Vocalizations
 The text contains a list of words and phrases that are not directly related, including "motif lunch," "optical,"
"hydrogen," "sharp," "skiing," "mountains," "a this way" (translated as "ស"), "a mountain" (translated as "ល"),
"principals" (translated as "ា"), and a series of Georgian-looking characters. The words are not arranged in a
meaningful or grammatically correct way, suggesting that they may be random or used for stylistic purposes rather than
communication.

Checking Getting Truth Wrong - And Consequences
 In this video, Darin Stephenson explores the idea of truth in language and how it relates to knowledge and
understanding. He argues that our understanding of a story or text deepens with each re-reading or retelling, as we gain
new insights and perspectives. This applies to all forms of communication, including traditional stories from indigenous
cultures.

He also discusses the Rossellian paradox, a statement that is false but has no content. This paradox illustrates that
statements do not determine their own truth or falsity; minds interpret statements. Darin suggests that this
demonstrates a common problem where humans confuse the facticity of a statement with our evaluations of its content.

He concludes by discussing enlightenment, arguing that it is an infinite direction rather than a destination. Even those
validated as enlightened will not declare they have achieved enlightenment, due to the non-truth or falseness of
awareness itself.

Overall, this video emphasizes the importance of continuous learning and open-mindedness when engaging with language and
communication.

Checking Gratitude ｜ Blessings
 Darin Stephenson expresses his gratitude for being alive during this time, acknowledging the challenges of winter and
the approaching solstice. He celebrates Christmas as a special day, while also expressing concern about the world and
its inhabitants. He wishes everyone joy, healing, reassurance, and protection, and asks that compassion be extended to
those suffering or isolated. He is grateful for his human existence and the opportunities it provides, hoping to
liberate humanity from oppressive forces. He ends by wishing everyone a beautiful holiday season and thanks those who
share his journey.

Checking Hand Games
 This text appears to be a dialogue between two people, possibly in a cooking-related context. One person (likely a
chef) is teaching another how to make roux. Roux is a cooked starch paste used as a thickening agent in various dishes.
The chef is instructing the other person to start with equal parts of flour and fat (usually butter) in a cold pan, then
cook over low heat while stirring until it reaches the desired consistency. This can range from a white roux for lighter
sauces to a dark brown one for more robust flavors. The dialogue includes terms like "basic" and "pou dou," which are
likely cooking terms or French phrases related to this process.

Checking Hand Toy V 1 - Beta.m4v
 The speaker suggests that we should reconsider how we count our body parts. Instead of focusing on the traditional
five-part structure of the human body (head, four limbs), he proposes that we should count seven: one for the whole
body, one for the thinking member (brain), and then one each for the working members (neck, torso, two legs, two arms).
He also emphasizes the importance of the wrist, which he considers a "plus" to the count because it leads to an even
more astonishing set of extensions.

The speaker uses the hand as an example to illustrate his point. Just as our hand has a wrist that leads upscale to a
more complex implementation of the same paradigm (fingers), we too have a second "wrist" in the form of our gut, which
connects us to a set of sensory experiences that are beyond what humans typically associate with the senses. He
encourages listeners to count themselves as seven parts and to explore this idea further, particularly with children.

The speaker notes that this is not a new concept, but an understanding that can be derived from interactions with
non-human intelligences. He also mentions that the hand, like the leaf of a tree, is a flattened version of a more
complex paradigm that exists across our bodies and beyond, inviting listeners to explore these connections further on
their own.

Checking Haîma ： Hymen { Blood ｜ Sewing together }  Transfer ｜ Bonding
 In this passage, Darin Stephenson discusses various practices of using plants, substances, and trees for healing,
intoxication, euphoria, and spiritual communion. He mentions that women in ancient India were said to have introduced
antidotes or small amounts of the infective agent through skin scratches to produce antibodies. Darin also discusses the
concept of "joining" or sewing together, which involves using one's passion, curiosity, and soul to connect with nature,
such as trees, mountains, and stars. He emphasizes the importance of subtle means to access these effects, such as
having spiritual transfers and communion with features of nature without the use of intoxicants. Darin also mentions the
Haimophiliac, a person or child who may bleed excessively if scratched, and encourages listeners to consider this
condition in relation to the nature of time. He ends by expressing his desire for further adventures and learning
together.

Checking Head Games
 In this passage, a broker named Darin Stephenson is discussing the importance of understanding one's own emotional
state during trading in financial markets. He suggests that traders should aim for a balanced emotional state rather
than trying to suppress their emotions entirely. This balance allows them to make rational decisions based on data and
analysis, while also being aware of their intuition and gut feelings. Darin Stephenson emphasizes the need for
self-awareness and emotional intelligence in trading, as these qualities can help traders navigate the complex world of
financial markets successfully.

Checking Hemispheric Lateralization ⧸ Political Polarities
 The speaker expresses concerns about various issues affecting society today, including the polarized political climate
in the United States, illegal immigration, the Middle East conflict between Israel and Palestine, and the potential use
of false flags by different factions. He states that the current political system is not sustainable and poses a threat
to the future of many nations. In terms of immigration, he believes that allowing large numbers of people from other
countries to enter without conserving the structure of the polis will eventually lead to the planet being "snuffed." He
expresses dismay at hearing Chinese spoken frequently around him and acknowledges the importance of diversity but
emphasizes that it must be enacted naturally and cooperatively. In regards to Israel and Palestine, he expresses concern
about the killing of civilians by both sides, regardless of motivation, and urges against any form of violence towards
innocent people. He concludes by stating that it is important to educate oneself on complex issues like these and
encourages viewers to support his work if they find it valuable.

Checking Holophores： Organisms are Peoples
 The speaker proposes that we consider beings as peoples and lineages rather than separate entities. He argues that this
perspective leads to mutually beneficial, trustworthy, intimate relationships with all living beings, and enhances our
capacity for true intelligence and humanity. This transformation in perception affects various aspects of life,
including our understanding of the sun, the moon, food, seeing, dreaming, and our own bodies. He suggests that our
holophores, or fundamental patterns of thinking about the world, have become tokenized, leading to a loss of
intelligence and humanity. The speaker encourages listeners to experiment with this perspective and reconsider their
relationship with living beings.

Checking Holophores： Time (Beta1)
 In his talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the nature of time and its role in our universe, our relationships, and our
intelligence as beings. He suggests that time may not just be a dimension for matter, but an expression of intelligence
itself. He describes dark matter as an unthinkably profound mode of time, and argues that every living being is a
different representation of various modes and speeds of time. Stephenson then invites the audience to consider the
distance between two events in their own lives not just in terms of physical space or time, but also in terms of the
relationships and changes involved over that time period. He encourages us to continue exploring these concepts together
as we strive towards a deeper understanding of ourselves, our world, and the universe.

Checking Home
 The speaker discusses the concept of "home" and how it has evolved in modern society. He suggests that while we may
physically live in a home, we often feel disconnected from others and lack a sense of community. Homes have become
extensions of our identities and are defended like personal territory, creating an ongoing war for resources and
control. This state of affairs leaves many people feeling isolated and apart from one another, even when living in close
proximity to others. The speaker emphasizes the complexity and importance of the word "home" as a powerful symbol of
origin, memory, family, time, place, and beauty. He invites listeners to reflect on their own relationship with home and
consider how it shapes their experiences and interactions with the world.

Checking Hypertopics - & ( i so late ion )
 The speaker discussed the concept of metaphor in language and thought, as well as the importance of rhetoric in
communication. He mentioned a book called "The Dawn of Everything" that argues traditional views on human nature are
incorrect. The speaker also touched upon the idea that modern civilization extracts our interiority for public view,
often resulting in the death or falsification of our humanity and creativity.

Checking Ichneumon Wasp (suggest HD)
 The text appears to be a lyrics excerpt from a song titled "I'm Sorry" by Darin Stephenson. In this part of the song,
the speaker seems to express a lack of ability or desire to drink from some water and mentions that they saw "your old
Jews." However, it is not clear what this phrase means in the context of the lyrics. The mood shifts as they express a
lack of emotional impact when the water started boiling but feel something significant when talking to the listener.

Checking Identity & The Problem with Things
 The speaker discusses the nature of reality and how humans perceive it through religion and science. He argues that
both religion and science are misleading as they present a limited understanding of the universe, birth, death, light,
minds, and consciousness. The speaker suggests that the mind's ability to create universes while dreaming hints at its
profound capabilities beyond our current understanding. The speaker also mentions the analogy between physical objects
and the human brain, with the left hemisphere associated with writing (creativity) and the right hemisphere associated
with interruptive functions (sanity). The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude to listeners who engage with his
work and look forward to continuing their journey of exploration.

Checking Identity ｜ Language ｜ Knowledge
 The speaker discusses the limits of knowledge, particularly as it relates to generalizations and representation. He
argues that we know very little about the world compared to what is truly happening, and our representational knowledge
is a thin veneer that requires interiority for interpretation. The speaker criticizes our tendency to seek knowledge to
confirm our beliefs rather than learn, citing the example of statistics used to support biases or validate opinions. He
encourages an openness to the unknown and mystery in order to grow and amnesia our trust in representational paradigms.
Throughout his talk, the speaker emphasizes the importance of questioning authorization and understanding what we deem
as truly trustworthy and authentic.

Checking Imagination ： The Basis of Consciousness
 The video discusses the imagination and its role in human experience. It argues that imagination is a powerful faculty
that allows us to communicate non-verbally with others, accessing pre-verbal forms of awareness. The speaker also
highlights that our modern societies and cultures have created narratives that either inhibit or eliminate these
faculties, leaving many people disconnected from their natural abilities. The speaker encourages viewers to explore and
recover the faculties native to human experience, using imagination as a tool for stepping beyond limited models of
consciousness and awareness. They also warn against material that encourages trance-like states, emphasizing the
importance of trustworthy inner passion in exploring and accessing these faculties.

Checking Imagination ｜ Perspective ： Far Away ｜ So Close
 The speaker discusses the concept of intentionally forming one's mind anew and exploring different paths toward
self-discovery and understanding. He mentions various ways in which one can redirect their thoughts, such as quieting
their thinking mind, slowing down cognitive activity, and allowing the mind to be vulnerable. He emphasizes the
importance of lifting each other out of confines and embracing the vastness of humanity and consciousness. The speaker
also touches upon the concept of mothering being a fundamental dimension of human intelligence and discusses the
transformation that occurs when one interacts with the natural world.

Checking Imnumen 61： RepCog, The Meronymic Web, Animals
 The speaker challenges our understanding of what it means to be human by discussing the overlooked aspect of cells in a
living organism. He argues that about 90% of an organism isn't its own and comes from other life forms, especially
bacteria. This bacterial aspect of an organism is thought to transmit traits, but we only look at the germline. The
speaker also discusses how our understanding of what an animal or human being is has been narrowed because of the focus
on DNA. He suggests that we may have the wrong idea about what life forms are and that this, in turn, could be included
in other ideas. The speaker encourages us to explore the forests of formal representational cognition to learn, teach,
discover and correct our ideas together to hope for becoming intelligent together.

Checking In Dependence ： Humans are Pod Animals
 The speaker argues that human beings have a natural inclination towards behaviors like cooperation and interdependence,
but our modern culture of independence often discourages these behaviors. He suggests that we could benefit from forming
teams with others who can provide feedback, emotional mirroring, and mutual support, as well as work together to make
intelligent decisions in a crisis or seize an opportunity. He envisions this team as a small, highly skilled unit that
can intrude on any context and manipulate it for their own benefit in ways that are humane and noble. This is a way to
form societies that are not infected with the harmful aspects of existing ones, such as pirates, rapists, and soldiers.
The speaker suggests that we need to start building these teams ourselves, and he calls this a "pod overlay" on our
complex lives, which can include other forms of membership and obligations. He argues that this is part of the appeal of
romantic love, and it could help us to be more intelligent and creative in our daily lives.

Checking Incarnation & the Soul： The Great Quest
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the idea of quests in life and their role in discovering and illuminating our
humanity. He emphasizes that truth can be subjective and depends on individual perspectives, relationships, and
orientations. He argues that we should maintain a sense of mystery regarding identity, being, origin, and result, and
engage with them playfully, creatively, and with reverence. He also mentions the importance of public and private
aspects in our lives, and the need to understand what it means to be human. Darin suggests that taking on quests that
illuminate our humanity for each other can bring light not only to our present but also to human history and the future.
The video concludes with a call to join him in exploring the essence of being human.

Checking Inception, Possession and Initiatory Death ⧸ Resurrection
 In this text, the speaker shares their thoughts on the nature of reality and spirituality, using the character of Aman
as a guide. They discuss topics such as power, fame, love, death, and forbidden knowledge, drawing parallels between
ancient religious practices and modern understandings of these concepts. The speaker also touches upon the theme of
possession, suggesting that true spiritual growth comes from being possessed by the spirit of truth rather than worldly
possessions or desires. They express gratitude for the insights they've gained through their journey and wish the same
for the reader.

Checking Inner Archaeology： Mindcrafting
 In this video, the speaker emphasizes the importance of forming a mind with others and the astonishing potentials that
can be accessed when we do so. They believe that most of our consciousness exists in relationships between minds rather
than as static individual possessors. The speaker encourages viewers to experiment with leaving their familiar patterns
of thought behind and to explore the dynamic, vast nature of consciousness that lies beyond the confines of our personal
minds. They express hope that this may be a unique opportunity for humanity during these times of societal upheaval and
distraction. The speaker does not specify any particular method or technique for forming a mind with others, but
suggests that this can happen in any situation where communication is possible, particularly when voices can be heard.
They believe that if we can escape the old traps and establish new terrain in our consciousness, we will find exquisite,
intelligent, liberating ways of being human that are ancient yet beyond our common thoughts and beliefs. The speaker
concludes by expressing hope that some viewers may have direct experiences of this potential rather than just thinking
about it.

Checking Insight
 In this monologue, the speaker discusses the nature of fundamental insights, which unify the field of knowledge and
deliver a direct experience of reality. He compares intellectual understanding to dreaming, suggesting that the waking
world we experience is an illusion structured by our intellect and categorization. The speaker argues that insight is
necessary for understanding the true nature of existence, as it demonstrates the relatedness of all things in a new and
astonishing way. He mentions that dreams can also be a form of insight activity, and that our waking experience is a
highly structured mode of dreaming limited by the persistence of the material world. The speaker concludes by expressing
gratitude for the opportunity to learn together and looks forward to future discussions.

Checking Intelligence II： Sapiens Aren't ⧸ Hitchhiking
 The video features a man named Darren talking about how humans are destroying nature and intelligence through their
actions. He discusses how organisms hitchhike on each other's historical, biorelational, and cognitive activity to
produce enhancement of opportunity and resilience, using examples like the Amazon rainforests and the oceans before they
were exploited by humans. He also mentions a Blackfoot phrase "Stomachucked, Omanist, Olauacucked," which translates to
keep going or persevere in difficult times. The speaker expresses frustration about the destructive actions of humans
towards nature and intelligence.

Checking Intelligence and Surveillance ： Views
 In a captivating talk, Darin Stephenson offers an unusual perspective on the story of Adam and Eve in the Bible.
Instead of focusing on what was stolen or who was at fault, he suggests that the story is meant to teach us about our
own intelligence and potential for growth.

Stephenson argues that humanity's first mistake was realizing we could be sexually surveilled, leading women to wear
makeup as a sign of submission, and men to wear ties as a symbol of rigidity. This self-surveillance, he claims, can
either lead to psychosis or ecological relational intelligence, depending on whether it is based in fear (prosecutorial
surveillance) or love (relational excellence).

The speaker emphasizes that if we surround ourselves with encouraging and loving minds, we will rise to our highest
potentials. By understanding the hidden meaning of the Bible's stories, we can unlock our own innate intelligence and
transcend fear, blame, and complaint. The ultimate goal is to create a world filled with mercy, justice, wonder, beauty,
truth, liberation, music, reverence, adoration, fellowship, and communion.

The speaker encourages listeners to share this perspective with others who might appreciate it.

Checking Intelligence or Dissociation？
 The speaker describes his perspective on human intelligence as a complex and sensitive aspect that arises from
relationships and contexts rather than being an inherent trait or possession. He suggests that our modern societies have
been parasitized by counterfeit aspects of intelligence, leading to destructive behavior and disconnection from nature.
To the speaker, true intelligence is rooted in deep mutual concern for all beings, emotional understanding, and a
participatory relationship with the world. The speaker hopes to contribute to this kind of intelligence through his
explorations and discoveries, encouraging healing, play, joy, and wonder.

Checking Intelligence
 Darren Brown discusses the importance of understanding our true nature as living beings and more than merely human,
which involves embracing our inherent abilities and potentials. He criticizes modern society for commodifying and
exploiting these aspects of humanity, leaving individuals feeling isolated and lost.

He offers examples of his own magic tricks to demonstrate the power of manipulating consciousness, highlighting that
these skills are not about physical prowess but rather influencing human perception. Brown asserts that our enslavement
stems from a deep pain caused by isolation, lack of meaningful identity or role, and loneliness among thousands of
strangers.

He emphasizes the need to break free from this state, not just for personal fulfillment but also to liberate others,
including ancestors, children, and future generations. Brown proposes that we should use our intelligence to understand
these principles and develop strategies that promote genuine liberation and healing.

He encourages listeners to find ways to apply this understanding in their lives and relationships, focusing on
small-scale collaborations for mutual support and recovery. Brown invites listeners to contribute financially to his
work through his website and expresses gratitude for those who engage with and share his ideas.

Checking Interpreting the Gap ｜ Discontinuity and Emotion
 In this monologue, Darin discusses how modern communication technology can create miscommunication and misunderstanding
due to its disembodied nature and lack of contextual cues, such as tone of voice or facial expressions. He uses his
experience with a gaming group as an example, where a period of silence led to confusion and misinterpretation among the
members. Darin suggests that this problem arises because we are accustomed to certain rhythms in communication, and when
those rhythms are disrupted, we may interpret the absence as meaningful, leading to overthinking and potentially
delusional explanations. He argues that this is especially problematic for people who are prone to overthinking or have
unique ways of thinking. Darin also touches on the broader issues of how technology can create a context where deep
communication is difficult and relationships can be damaged or compromised, particularly for those born into it without
historical perspective. He concludes by expressing concern for the impact of modern communication technology on human
relationships and mental health, especially during times of isolation.

Checking Invocation ｜ Evocation
 In this video, Darin Stephenson reflects on the words "invocation" and "evocation." He explains how these ideas are
constantly present in our lives without realizing it. He goes on to describe the difference between language models and
ideas and that which they point towards, which cannot be described in words but can only be experienced as sympathetic
or empathetic transformations of one's interiority.

He expresses his wish to reflect briefly on these concepts and how they point to unnamed, unspeakable invisibles. He
encourages the audience to work together in recovering senses which are not verbal but potentials that most of us will
live and die never experiencing. He believes that developing these faculties can connect human beings with each other,
with their origins, with their essence, and with the invisible world.

The speaker does not need to be mentioned, just say: "In this video, Darin Stephenson..."

Checking Iphetios 20： Multibird
 The speaker proposes that humans are not truly individual as language suggests, but rather interconnected and fluid in
nature. He argues that this understanding is important because we currently form fake collectives based on fictional
frameworks like economies, religions, politics, and cultures. These collectives are often conflicted and cause harm to
the living ecologies of Earth. The speaker suggests that humans should instead come together spontaneously in groups
committed to noble purposes for each other, forming liquid, intelligent, self-correcting human collectives. He
emphasizes the importance of understanding our connection to nature and ceasing destructive behavior towards it to
ensure our survival. The speaker invites listeners to join the conversation and discover how to form effective human
collectives that can potentially re-inform the current fictional ones.

Checking Is space(time) 'pure' potential -intelligence-？
 In this thought-provoking talk, Darin Stephenson offers insights on space, time, death, intelligence, and separation.
He proposes that space, in its purest form, is undifferentiated intelligence, acting as a container for form and
meaning. The human body is bound by laws, while the mind is not, existing within the dimensions of time-space, death,
unity, and separation. The mind shapes these dimensions through its ideas. Stephenson also suggests that space, such as
water and the ocean, plays a significant role in our sentience and the basis of our minds and intelligence. He
emphasizes the importance of protecting water bodies due to their connection with the source of life and intelligence.
Lastly, he encourages understanding nature's incredible dimensionality, suggesting that we have failed to recognize the
myriad branches of advanced intelligences present around us. The speaker encourages personal exploration, questioning,
and expansion on these topics as a means to develop our understanding of space, time, separation, and death, ultimately
promoting the protection and understanding of the biosphere's diversity.

Checking Jobs vs Roles
 The speaker discusses the importance of recognizing roles in human development and how our society often substitutes
jobs for roles, causing distress and confusion. This phenomenon can lead to extreme behaviors like mass shootings. To
combat this, we should aim to create heroic roles for each other that are open, intelligent, creative, and true to
nature, rather than continuing to perform jobs that don't align with our true selves. The speaker emphasizes the
potential of stories to remind us of our true opportunities, obligations, and responsibilities, which can catalyze
positive change in the world.

Checking Kephab 32： The Precedence of Unity
 In this discussion, the speaker examines the evolution of the concept of measure, from a tool used by humans to make
sense of their environment to an absolute truth that was thought to be decreed by gods in ancient times. The speaker
notes that the objectification and rigidification of measures led to fragmentation and confusion in society. In
contrast, Eastern societies have tended to view the immeasurable as the primary reality. However, the speaker suggests
that both perspectives may contain elements of truth: measure is an insight created by humans, and therefore cannot be
fundamental reality, but it can bring order and harmony into our lives. The speaker speculates that in ancient times,
those who saw the immeasurable as primary reality may have also understood that measures are secondary and dependent on
human insights, but became mechanized through conformity to existing teachings. The speaker concludes by emphasizing the
importance of personal understanding and creativity in grasping these concepts.

Checking Keys to Beyond： What is time？ What is 'an organism＂？
 The speaker is sharing an inspiring message about human potential and the true nature of our existence. He emphasizes
that we are living beings, not machines, and that we have the power to transform ourselves and the world around us. He
warns against the dangers of being disconnected from our sources in nature and transcendental intelligence, as this can
lead to paranoia and fear. The speaker believes that we are here to unify and magnify the entire ring of intelligences
on earth and that if we reconnect with our authentic selves, we will become powerful agents of transformation. He
mentions that evil is not real, but a trick played by the representational left hemisphere in human culture. The speaker
encourages the listener to escape the cages of language and concepts and to lift nature up above them as their guiding
force for action.

Checking Language： Denotation, Connotation & Idealization
 In this spoken word piece, Darren expresses his desire to understand and transcend the ego, a part of human
consciousness that seeks to preserve its dominance. He expresses love for all living beings, even those who cause him
harm, and hopes for progress in understanding one another beyond the structures of language and public thought. He
likens our waking lives to dreams, and wonders if death is familiar to us as it may have been experienced before or many
times over. Darren hopes to be freed from the ego, which he sees as a costume that obscures his true nature, and wishes
to reconnect with the original light within him and all beings.

Checking Light on the Waters
 The speaker discusses the different layers or dimensions one can see when looking at water, such as the surface, the
space between it and the bottom, and what lies on the bottom. They also talk about how changing focus is like changing
one's mind and how each shift reveals a different kind of consciousness. The speaker shares an experience with their
father, where he became frightened as he seemed to be merging with a tree during a walk near a pool of water. The
speaker suggests that their father may have been hypnotized or had a trance-like state. However, they argue that the
event was likely more profound and unlocked a door within him to a more expanded state of consciousness. They describe
this experience as insight, which can bring degrees of freedom and understanding to one's ordinary consciousness. The
speaker also discusses various languages and their music, suggesting that speech is structured music. Ultimately, the
speaker emphasizes the beauty of life paths, dreams lit by original light, and the world we inhabit.

Checking Light, Time, Reflections
 The speaker suggests that human history has experienced different periods of closeness or distance from an invisible,
transcendental source of light, which could be referred to as the "invisible sun". This source of light is believed to
have a profound impact on human emotions, intelligence, creativity, and character. Over time, our actions may have
influenced this relationship, changing our perception of the light's presence in our lives. The speaker also posits that
contemporary society might be experiencing a period of "bad weather" in terms of our connection with this source of
light, leading to stories, religions, and metaphysics. If the clouds were to depart and the light of origin was commonly
available again, humans might find it confusing and terrifying due to societal norms. Despite this, the speaker
encourages listeners to explore whether there is truth to this conjecture about an invisible sun or something even
better in their own way.

Checking Lisance 3： Distance under unity as light⧸time.
 In this excerpt from Herman Bollandy's book "Relativity in Common Sense," the author proposes a thought experiment that
challenges our understanding of distance and velocity by considering alternative perspectives.

Firstly, Bollandy discusses radar technology used to measure distances without a physical yardstick. Instead, they
measure time intervals between transmission and reception of radio waves, which travel at the speed of light. This
method suggests that if we grew up using this approach, we might not conceive of distance as having parts or scales.

Secondly, Bollandy imagines a civilization where distances are always expressed in terms of light (seconds,
microseconds, etc.), and velocity is considered as an object moving at the speed of light. This civilization would
perceive ordinary velocities as fractions of the velocity of light, eliminating the need for both time and distance
standards.

Finally, Bollandy proposes another civilization where north-south directions are measured in miles, while east-west
directions are measured in yards. In this scenario, physicists would be required to work out the equivalence between the
two units, similar to how we understand the velocity of light as a standard.

These thought experiments aim to demonstrate that our understanding of distance and velocity is influenced by the
metrics and frameworks we use, and there may be simpler, more efficient ways of perceiving these concepts if we adopt
different perspectives. The author encourages readers to consider how their assumptions and approaches might impact
their understanding of complex phenomena.

Checking Listening ｜ Slowing Down ｜ Syntropy
 The speaker expresses concern about humanity's current state, particularly in the United States, and suggests a few
solutions:
1. Acknowledge and address the system of lies that has been built over centuries.
2. Build, teach, and train small teams of highly motivated individuals to undertake missions of transformation or
uplift.
3. Link these teams together for mutual benefit, intelligence, defense, success, while also
4. engaging in active sensing, noble endeavor, noble intelligence, noble roles, learning, growth, and
5. collaborating with others who share a vision of building flexible, intelligent frames together.
The speaker concludes by emphasizing the reachability of these solutions and the potential for small teams to rapidly
transform a nation overnight, or conversely destroy it in one day.

Checking Living Time： The Pulse of Life
 In this video, a man discusses his visit to San Francisco's Golden Gate Park, focusing on the presence of an irritating
sound system that plays recordings of terrified geese in an attempt to control the park's goose population. The speaker
argues that the sound system is unnecessary and harmful, disrupting the natural flow of time and creating misery for
both humans and animals. He calls for a more mindful approach to interaction with nature and other living beings,
suggesting that our culture's tendency to fill lives with tasks, abstractions, and entertainment is destructive and
alienating. The speaker concludes by advocating for a choice between two paths: one filled with mechanical or task-based
events outside a certain gate and another inhabited by more alive experiences within it.

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 2
 Darin Stephens discusses the idea that certain fundamental concepts in any language are essential for lucid
intelligence, and these root concepts can become damaged or abstracted as societies evolve. He mentions books like "The
Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind" by Julian Jaynes, which explore this concept.

Stephens argues that science, with its mechanical perspective, damages these root concepts and makes it difficult to
restore their original richness. However, psychedelics have the potential to help break this language issue but also
pose a danger due to being captured by the thrifts (a term used for institutions or societal structures that stifle
creative thought).

The speaker shares a personal experience with redwood trees in San Francisco, connecting them to grandmother spirits
during a psychedelic trip. He implies that psychedelics can help break the language issue but also warns of their
capture by thrifts.

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 3
 Initiation rituals are a way of transitioning from one state to another, either individually or collectively. They
involve entering a new state and grounding oneself in it, marking the force and finality of that transition. Darin
believes that we should focus on living with our own initiation rituals as they arise in our lives rather than seeking
out one single initiation ritual for everyone to participate in. He also emphasizes that initiation rituals can be
spontaneous, systematic, or taken from other religious or cultural contexts, and can help individuals align themselves
with their internal energy flow and shift from an external focus to being grounded in their internal energy. Darin is
currently exploring the use of somatic therapy and contact improv for creating more systematic initiation rituals, but
emphasizes that everyone's journey into adulthood and alignment with the world around them is unique and should be
attuned to.

Checking Luca Rade - Liquid Conversation Part 4
 Luca Rade shared his vision for humans, emphasizing the importance of focusing on real, physical interactions and
experiences rather than abstract concepts like "humanity." He suggested that our individual perceptions and experiences
are as vast and complex as the external universe, and that unlearning layers of interpretation can help us navigate and
inhabit this personal universe more intuitively. Rade also highlighted the need to reconnect with and express love in
our interactions with each other, as a means to create a field of resonance and experience pure joy. Overall, his vision
is about reconnecting with ourselves and others on a deep, embodied level and experiencing life with fullness, love, and
joy.

Checking Luca Rade — Liquid Conversation Part 1
 The interview is with Darin Stephenson, who discusses his view on how societies, religions, corporations and
governments have become "thrifts" that are weaponized for their own survival and reproduction, and in doing so,
compromise human potential for insight, group behavior, learning, self-fulfillment and more. He suggests the idea of a
medicinal alternative, which he refers to as "God", but warns against viewing it as top-down authority. Instead, he
posits that this concept is "emergent" and may have originated from a rebellious, underground movement, contrasting
Christianity's original intention with its current form. The interview ends on a cliffhanger, with the speaker hinting
at more to come in future discussions about this emergent concept.

Checking Lucidty ｜ Dreaming and Waking
 In his talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the nature of human consciousness, focusing on the relationship between
dreaming, waking, and lucidity. He suggests that dreaming and waking are interconnected aspects of awareness, with
dreaming being a branch of waking that collapses into it during sleep.

He explains that in waking life, we often suppress the imaginative, dimensional aspects of our consciousness, which can
lead to feelings of disconnection from ourselves and our environment. This suppression can manifest in various forms of
psychosis or mental illness. However, he argues that recovering these faculties is essential for personal growth and
understanding of our true nature as human beings.

Stephenson emphasizes the importance of lucidity in waking life, which he describes as a state of clear and coherent
consciousness that goes beyond rational thought and includes aspects of direct participation in being, time, relation,
and circumstance. He encourages us to explore and recover these faculties lost over the course of human evolution,
particularly those related to our imagination and wonder.

He also highlights the significance of understanding the relationship between dreaming and memory, as they are like the
inside and outside of an octopus – interconnected yet distinct aspects of a larger whole. He emphasizes that gaining
insights into these dimensions can be profoundly enriching, akin to tasting one's own soul's adventure in embodied
existence.

Finally, he encourages listeners to open the door from dreaming to waking world experience gently and beautifully, with
intelligence, creativity, inspiration, reassurance, and profoundness. He hopes that by understanding and exploring these
connections between consciousness states, we can help each other grow and ultimately wake up from the collective dream
of suffering and disconnection.

Checking Machines Between Us ｜ The Cage
 The speaker emphasizes the importance of forming cohorts (small groups) with people we love and trust, as it provides a
sense of belonging, mutual support, and shared purpose. He mentions that humans are social beings by nature, and we
derive energy and motivation from being part of an intimate relational^[[D community. However, modern society has led to the
corruption and co-optation of our inherent need for meaningful relationships, resulting in feelings of isolation,
despair, and ennui. The speaker suggests that forming cohorts can help combat these feelings, even if only on a small
scale or temporarily. He acknowledges that there are many exceptions to this general trend, as not everyone has the same
access to supportive communities or the means to create them. However, he emphasizes that humans have an innate need for
connection and purpose, which can be met through the formation of cohorts with shared values and goals. The speaker also
highlights the role of importance in forming deep relationships: when something is truly important to us, we are more
motivated to approach and relate with it deeply and profoundly together. He uses examples from warfare to illustrate
this concept, noting that tightly-knit terrorist groups and special ops teams can form powerful cohorts due to their
shared purpose and the risks they take for their cause. Overall, the speaker's message is that humans have a deep need
for connection, support, and shared purpose, and forming cohorts with others can help fulfill these needs even in
difficult or challenging circumstances.

Checking Mastered By Our Tools
 A man and his two daughters were trying to retrieve a climbing strap from a tree using unsafe methods, which made some
other park visitors nervous, as it appeared that the father was modeling risky behavior for his children. The speaker
felt torn between watching and not participating in order to respect the family's privacy and avoid adding stress, but
ultimately decided to observe and interact with them while considering their message to the children about taking risks.

Checking Memef•ck'd： Make a Stand
 The lyrics express a sense of struggle and darkness in the speaker's life, with reference to moving towards the ocean
(possibly symbolizing change or a fresh start). The speaker invites someone else who may also be battling their own
struggles to join them in this journey. The repetition emphasizes the idea of taking a stand together against their
personal difficulties. The speaker acknowledges that they don't need anyone to hold their hand, but a helping hand would
be appreciated. The first ten years of the speaker's life didn't seem too hard, but the following seven years were
particularly challenging, leading the speaker to live out of their car and write music as a means of finding solace and
regaining control over their life. The tone is contemplative and hopeful, suggesting a desire for change and
understanding from others who may be going through similar experiences.

Checking Memef＊ck'd： The Mystic's Dream
 The poem appears to be a series of repetitions of "the night" with varying numbers, indicating a sense of recurrence or
continuity associated with the nighttime. The speaker seems to suggest there's a storm in an ancient sea, creating a
sense of drama and turmoil. There's also a reference to someone hanging on grass which may imply a struggle or
connection between nature and the individual. However, these are interpretations and the true meaning might be
subjective to the reader's perspective.

Checking Memory and Intelligence： The Inner Mirror
 Darren discussed the use of statistics in researching biological phenomena, emphasizing that while we have the ability
to gather and analyze data, the resulting statistics are often tentative and subject to change as more information is
gathered. He warned against amateur analysis and citizens acting as scientists without a proper understanding of
statistics, as their conclusions may be unreliable. He also criticized individuals who share false or misleading
information on social media and praised scientific research for its self-correcting nature. Darren further cautioned
against the spreading of conspiracy theories about COVID-19 and emphasized the importance of making informed decisions
based on trustworthy sources to protect public health.

Checking Memory ｜ Memorial Day
 Today's video celebrates memory as the foundation of all human minds and intelligence. The speaker discusses Captain
Nemo from "20,000 Leagues Under the Sea" and Robin Hood as examples of avatars who protect the ocean and forests
respectively, defending them against human destruction. He recalls the Vietnam War, stating that many children hoped it
would end in their lifetime but this did not happen. Instead, humans continue to make war, finding new ways to do so
within themselves. The speaker argues that war should come to an end as it is harmful and unjustifiable. The video also
touches on the importance of living memory, including the role of trees, plants, animals, and ecosystems in human
consciousness. The speaker calls for respect and reverence for this living memory.

Checking Memory, Narratives & Identity： The Celestial Braid
 The speaker shares his recent realization that narratives, or stories, play a significant role in structuring memory
and thus shaping our understanding of ourselves and our world. This insight can explain historical phenomena, as it
shows how certain narratives can lead people to act in destructive ways or be captivated by specific beliefs. The
speaker stresses the need to learn how to differentiate between harmful, neutral, and beneficial narratives. He believes
we can develop faculties that have been latent within us for generations, which could revolutionize human intelligence
and cooperation if we recognize their potential. The speaker suggests that our current relationship with narratives is
problematic due to the utilitarian perspective often taken by supercultures, in which nature and stories are treated as
commodities. Instead, he proposes that we should learn to relate with narratives more intelligently to unlock these
latent potentials. He concludes by encouraging listeners to pay attention to their methods of disambiguation,
particularly regarding identity, and to recognize the astonishing continuum of human intelligence when it appears asin
or supernatural.

Checking Memory
 In this poem, the author discusses the importance of memory in consciousness and culture, and how our reliance on
technology for remembering things has impoverished our memories. They also reflect on the sacred nature of imagination
and dreaming, and how they can help us understand our place in the world and in time. The author wishes their listeners
a happy solstice night, joyful coming time, and wonder in their memory, dreaming, and relationships.

Checking Metalanguage
 In this podcast, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of meta languages, which he defines as languages that have a
higher level of abstraction and are used to describe or manipulate other languages or systems. He provides examples of
meta languages in religious texts, programming languages, mathematics, and even humor. He argues that these meta
languages have the power to cause events, change reality, and structure information. He also suggests that understanding
meta languages can help us liberate ourselves from oppressions and cultural norms. He mentions the importance of
respecting and understanding the language itself, as it is a crucial tool for our survival. The speaker emphasizes the
significance of studying these meta languages to gain a better understanding of the world around us and to navigate it
more effectively.

Checking Mind the gap — A Pathology of Intervals
 The speaker discusses how humans perceive different intervals, such as time or music, and how these can impact our
emotions and cognition. He expresses a preference for slow tempos and mentions his love for bookstores, particularly
Green Apple Books in San Francisco, where he enjoys listening to the employees' banter. The speaker also reflects on the
lack of creative, intelligent conversation in his life due to the loss of artist friends from gentrification and laments
this gap in his existence. He refers to art and education as the oxygen in society's bloodstream, believing they are
essential for a fulfilling life. He concludes by emphasizing his love for the planet, its history, and future.

Checking Mind, Memory and The Human Cogniscium
 The speaker suggests that human minds may be connected through a network he calls the "mimula," which transmits
information between individuals and could be influenced by unseen forces or entities. He believes that these connections
are not limited to individual human beings, but also exist within each person.

He also discusses the potential role of nature in shaping human consciousness and intelligence. According to him, humans
may represent a unique organ of memory and cognition, with the ability to recover and remember our ancient origins
through our interactions with living beings and ecosystems. This recovery could help us rediscover our inherent beauty,
potential, and noble proclivities.

The speaker expresses hope that humanity can work together to understand these connections and harness their full
potential while navigating the challenges posed by technological development. He encourages listeners to engage in
creative, intelligent, and purposeful reflection on human cognition and consciousness.

Checking Mindfulness, Musashi, Zen — Using Attention to Calm the Mind
 In this video, Darin Stephenson shares his thoughts on mindfulness practice during times of crisis and unexpected
change. He discusses the importance of mindfulness for mental health and how it can help one make decisions that make
sense in uncertain times. He encourages viewers to bring mindfulness into their awareness when things are confusing or
frightening, focusing on the body and essential aspects of being to nurture resilience and faith. Stephenson also
expresses his concern about modern society and the state of civilization, feeling it lacks sociality, intelligence,
education, and enlightenment. He concludes by sending love and blessings to viewers, hoping for their well-being during
these challenging times.

Checking Minds & Structured Fictions
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson delves into the evolution of human consciousness, discussing how our understanding and
use of language have played a significant role in shaping our perception of reality. He argues that as we became more
linguistically and culturally structured, many aspects of our deeper, dreaming awareness were lost or suppressed.

Stephenson suggests that this evolution has led to the development of a "waking mind" that is structured, abstract, and
non-participatory, while our original faculties for imagining, sensing, and connecting with other beings in profound
ways have been relegated to our dreaming or unconscious states.

He highlights the potential benefits of reconnecting with these deeper aspects of our consciousness, including the
ability to travel within time and space without physical movement, empathize deeply with other beings, and access a more
authentic understanding of ourselves and the world around us.

Stephenson acknowledges that this quest can be challenging, as it may confront deep-seated fears and the momentum of our
current consciousness structures. However, he encourages listeners to pursue this journey, either alone or in
collaboration with others, in the hope of unlocking new possibilities for human awareness and connection.

Checking Minds： Beyond Human Culture
 In this passage, the speaker emphasizes the importance of understanding our minds correctly to unlock their full
potential. He argues that our current understanding of our minds has been degraded by abstraction and cultural
conditioning, leading us to crawl instead of fly in terms of mental capabilities.

The speaker suggests that the root concepts used in human intelligence (such as a tree, animal, or time) have been
damaged over time, making it difficult for us to understand their true meanings. This damage, in turn, prevents our
minds from functioning intelligently.

To remedy this situation, the speaker proposes reconnecting with nature to allow her to correct these root concepts. By
doing so, we can learn what a tree is, what water means, and more, not just through ideas or definitions but in a way
that truly resonates with our intelligence.

The speaker also emphasizes that our minds are the arbiters of identity, value, beauty, holiness, and meaning, not
passive recipients. He argues that we each have the power to change the world and it's our responsibility to do so, but
only if we can establish something more like true intelligence.

Finally, the speaker encourages us to use our minds wisely when engaging with technology, as these technologies often
replace human intelligence with abstractions and more conduits for domineering thrisps (which could be interpreted as
manipulative forces or ideologies). He concludes by emphasizing that we collectively have more power than any nation on
earth, making it our responsibility to transform the world.

Checking Mistaken Identity： When Nouns Decieve
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the fundamental changes in our understanding of humanity and nature due to
technological advancements. He argues that traditional definitions of what it means to be human are no longer accurate
as we have become something else, and we need to formally recognize this shift.

He points out that our common thought about identity, meaning, value, and purpose is archaic and potentially dangerous,
as it is based on misconceptions imported from evolutionary biology. He suggests that the goal of life is not survival
but myriad aspects like symbiotic relations and togetherness.

Stephenson also criticizes the myth of individualism, arguing there are no individuals because every individual depends
intimately on billions of other life forms. He calls for a transformation in our thought to prioritize change over
stability and see transformations as having precedence due to the nature of time.

Finally, he emphasizes the need to adapt our relationships with vigilance, ambiguity, and prediction, as these factors
are at the root of many problems we face today. He encourages us to recognize the transformations in our world and
cultures and behave accordingly to unlock our potentials as humans.

Checking Mnemonium 7： Memory and Intelligence
 Memory is not a recording or an analog of anything we can think. It is a living, manifold entity that constellates
unities from various elements and transforms over time. It is not something we can fully understand or describe with
language, as telling memories in words only gives us a skeletal translation of the waking mind's description, rather
than the actual memory itself. To truly grasp the nature of memory, we must go beyond our current understanding of
science and religion, and explore it directly through personal experience. The speaker encourages us to seek out this
living door in dreams, as memories are the birthplace of all other ideas and concepts we play with. He invites us to
find out together what memory is like, suggesting that it might be akin to meeting a long-forgotten mother in person.

Checking Modern Thrisp Gambits ⧸ Crisis & Gratitude
 The speaker discusses his concerns about technology and its impact on human relationships and interactions. He mentions
examples such as the mimila and thrisps, which are creatures that behave in ways that can be harmful or destructive. He
also talks about political correctness and how it can lead to a narrow-minded perspective that hinders understanding and
intelligence. The speaker suggests that deep bonds formed around mutual purposes and shared beliefs are key to solving
problems and fostering intelligent communication. He emphasizes the importance of empathy, understanding, and open
dialogue in resolving issues. Additionally, he expresses gratitude for every moment of life and encourages others to
appreciate the preciousness of their experiences.

Checking More Than Human (II)
 The speaker emphasizes that each person has immense potential beyond their current existence and roles in society. He
believes that most people are not realizing their full potential because they are trapped in a shell-like existence,
limited by societal expectations and culture. However, with the right insights, one can break free from this shell and
access profound intelligences that define human existence. The speaker uses examples of famous individuals like Einstein
to illustrate his point. He warns against getting caught up in commercial versions of stardom, commodification of
prodigy, and the distractions of technology. Instead, he encourages listeners to remember and rediscover their lost
potential and urgent human desires together. He concludes by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to share his
thoughts and looks forward to future learning experiences with the audience.

Checking More Than Human ⧸ Extraordinary Knowing
 In this conversation between Darren and Henrietta, they discuss the nature of human consciousness and collective
understanding. They propose that the human mind is not confined to an individual but extends beyond, connecting with
others through a shared space they call "the more than human."

They argue that our current models of mind and thought are outdated and inadequate for understanding this connection.
Instead, they suggest a model where minds are fundamentally interconnected, and this interconnection is what allows us
to learn and see better together.

Darren expresses his hesitation about labeling himself or others as psychics, preferring terms like "a way of seeing" or
"perceiving." He emphasizes the need for reverence and respect when discussing these profound, transcendental
experiences.

Henrietta mentions the potential danger of commodifying these experiences and turning them into a cult or religion. They
agree on the importance of maintaining a filter between collective representations and these ways of seeing together to
prevent this from happening.

Finally, they express their gratitude for the opportunity to learn and remember together with listeners and future
guests on the podcast. The episode serves as an invitation to explore different perspectives and deepen our
understanding of ourselves and the world around us.

Checking More than Human
 In this video, Darin Stephenson delivers a heartfelt monologue about his struggles in life and reflects on the nature
of suffering and the ways people respond to it. He mentions his own gentle demeanor and how difficult it is for him to
become angry. However, he acknowledges that there are situations where he might act violently to defend someone he
loves.

Stephenson discusses his friend who's experiencing profound suffering due to a life situation that cannot be resolved.
Sometimes, he becomes angry at Darin when he talks about possible improvements in his daily life experience.

Darwin points out that his friend's life situation can't be resolved, and sometimes he gets angry with him when he
discusses possibilities for improving his daily life experience. He mentions the suffering people around the world who
are experiencing catastrophies, head injuries, onset of severe depression, bipolar disorder, cancer, and bulimia or
anorexia. He expresses compassion and concern for their agony, homes, jobs, futures, which are unknown, it's a
terrifying time in the world.

Darwin Stephenson talks about his current suffering that is nearly all-encompassing. He mentions how he has suffered
before but this suffering isn't the same kind as it's near all-encompassing and he's in traps maybe series of traps he
can't find his way out of so, he's not sure how the story will continue to unfold probably future chapters may bring
light or further darkness or bits of both let's see.

He's also aware of the great unbridled suffering of millions of people around the world who are in agony he has lost
parents, family, homes, jobs, their futures unknown it's a terrifying time in the world. Our societies to say they are
breaking down would be an understatement they're becoming actively malignant.

And this whether or not people are conscious of it they are aware of it and it's a source of despair, conflict,
confusion helplessness hopelessness anger frustration addiction loss pain suffering.

He feels compassion for the suffering of the living places the remains of our anciently conserved ecologies the oceans
remaining forests and wetlands rivers streams deserts mountains. It's a grim time. If he takes comfort at all it's in a
few things, one is that darker it gets the more profound unactive kindness becomes and it's in the scope of its effect
and brightness it brings to lives even a small act of kindness this gives him hope

He mentions how he still adores the living world and the beings all the living beings so there will be a little time yet
for love, celebration remembrance renewal rejuvenation. Bye-bye

In this video, Darin Stephenson delivers an emotional monologue about his struggles in life and reflects on the nature
of suffering and how people respond to it. He mentions his own gentle demeanor and how difficult it is for him to become
angry. However, he acknowledges that there are situations where he might act violently to defend someone he loves.

Darwin talks about his friend who's experiencing profound suffering due to a life situation that cannot be resolved.
Sometimes, he becomes angry at Darin when he discusses possibilities for improving his daily life experience.

Darwin mentions the suffering of people around the world who are experiencing catastrophies, head injuries, onset of
severe depression, bipolar disorder, cancer, and bulimia or anorexia. He expresses compassion and concern for their
agony, homes, jobs, futures which are unknown, it's a terrifying time in the world.

Darwin Stephenson talks about his current suffering that is nearly all-encompassing. He mentions how he has suffered
before but this suffering isn't the same kind as it's near all-encompassing and he's in traps maybe series of traps he
can't find his way out of so, he's not sure how the story will continue to unfold probably future chapters may bring
light or further darkness or bits of both let's see.

He's also aware of the great unbridled suffering of millions of people around the world who are in agony. He has lost
parents, family, homes, jobs, their futures unknown, it's a terrifying time in the world. Our societies to say they are
breaking down would be an understatement they're becoming actively malignant.

And this whether or not people are conscious of it, they are aware of it and it's a source of despair, conflict,
confusion helplessness hopelessness anger frustration addiction loss pain suffering.

He feels compassion for the suffering of the living places the remains of our anciently conserved ecologies the oceans
remaining forests and wetlands rivers streams deserts mountains. It's a grim time. If he takes comfort at all it's in a
few things, one is that darker it gets the more profound unactive kindness becomes and it's in the scope of its effect
and brightness it brings to lives even a small act of kindness this gives him hope.

He mentions how he still adores the living world and the beings all the living beings so there will be a little time yet
for love, celebration remembrance renewal rejuvenation. Bye-bye

In this video, Darin Stephenson delivers an emotional monologue about his struggles in life and reflects on the nature
of suffering and how people respond to it. He mentions his own gentle demeanor and how difficult it is for him to become
angry. However, he acknowledges that there are situations where he might act violently to defend someone he loves.

Darwin talks about his friend who's experiencing profound suffering due to a life situation that cannot be resolved.
Sometimes, he becomes angry at Darin when he discusses possibilities for improving his daily life experience.

Darwin mentions the suffering of people around the world who are experiencing catastrophies, head injuries, onset of
severe depression, bipolar disorder, cancer, and bulimia or anorexia. He expresses compassion and concern for their
agony, homes, jobs, futures which are unknown, it's a terrifying time in the world.

Darwin Stephenson talks about his current suffering that is nearly all-encompassing. He mentions how he has suffered
before but this suffering isn't the same kind as it's near all-encompassing and he's in traps maybe series of traps he
can't find his way out of so, he's not sure how the story will continue to unfold probably future chapters may bring
light or further darkness or bits of both let's see.

He mentions how he has lost parents, family, homes, jobs, their futures unknown, it's a terrifying time in the world.
Our societies to say they are breaking down would be an understatement they're becoming actively malignant.

And this whether or not people are conscious of it, they are aware of it and it's a source of despair, conflict,
confusion helplessness hopelessness anger frustration addiction loss pain suffering.

He feels compassion for the suffering of the living places the remains of our anciently conserved ecologies the oceans
remaining forests and wetlands rivers streams deserts mountains. It's a grim time. If he takes comfort at all it's in a
few things, one is that darker it gets the more profound unactive kindness becomes and it's in the scope of its effect
and brightness it brings to lives even a small act of kindness this gives him hope.

He mentions how he still adores the living world and the beings all the living beings so there will be a little time yet
for love, celebration remembrance renewal rejuvenation. Bye-bye

Checking Music
 Music plays a significant role in human life and has various benefits. It can help us remember things better, improve
our nervous systems, and inspire us to envision new ways of being. The use of music in religious texts is common as it
makes content more memorable and links it in memory in unique ways. Psychedelic music from the late 1950s introduced
young people to another way of experiencing interior states without drugs. Music has immense untapped potential to
transform, inform, and enchant our culture with inspirations that we might never dream of.

Checking My Dad and I play a little Guitar - July 8 2012
 The individual, unnamed in this context, expresses excitement and readiness as they repeat "It's happening." This
phrase suggests that a significant event or decision is being undertaken. The person repeats it several times,
emphasizing their anticipation and commitment. Finally, they conclude that they believe they have prepared enough for
the occurrence to take place.

Checking My People ｜ The Siren ｜ Molting
 The speaker, in a monologue, expresses concern about the impending crisis of humanity as we are entering a new phase of
our existence, which he likens to molting. He suggests that humanity is unprepared for this transition due to our
belligerent and destructive behavior towards nature over several centuries. The speaker warns of severe consequences for
our species, emphasizing that it's not a matter of optimism or pessimism but a mechanical outcome of our actions. He
refers to the Earth as a living organism with which we are interconnected, and our current practices of exploiting
nature are similar to hacking away at our own lifeline. The speaker predicts chaos and apocalypse as possible outcomes
of our actions. He concludes by suggesting that we should accept and embrace our humanity, interest in learning, and the
fleeting nature of life.

Checking Mystery and Anomalies
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson expresses his fascination with the mysteries of life and science, particularly
biology, microbiology, molecular biology, immunology, neuroscience, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. He mentions
that he's self-educated in these subjects but hasn't fully mastered math beyond basic arithmetic.

He criticizes corporations for misusing advanced technology, such as computing power, for surveillance purposes, and
expresses concerns about the potential dangerous applications of such technology.

Stephenson talks about ancient peoples' protocols for contacting non-human intelligence, which he believes scientists
dismiss as superstitions. He suggests that these protocols might contain valuable insights into the nature of
consciousness, intelligence, and the origins of scientific disciplines.

He emphasizes the importance of maintaining a sense of mystery in our understanding of being, warning against becoming
overconfident in one's knowledge, lest it lead to cynicism or an armor that suffocates the soul. He suggests that
humanity's understanding is mostly wrong in terms of representing insight, as our knowledge often operates within its
own axiomatic system but lacks broader context or wisdom.

Stephenson concludes by encouraging reverence for the mysteries of being and warning against underestimating the
potential dangers of advanced technology when it is misused. He implies that humanity's knowledge, while often correct
within its own framework, can be dead wrong in terms of representing insight into the nature of reality.

Checking NS Capture, Cats, Darwin's Actual Scope...
 The speaker discusses the origin of life and intelligence in the universe, suggesting that it's unlikely that it was a
mechanical accident or reproducible. They propose that there may be various intelligences involved, including those
beyond mere intelligence. The speaker also mentions the fine-tuning problem and presents an alternative explanation,
where non-viable universes are quickly dissolved and only viable ones persist. This model is seen as an explanatory
prosthesis for the fine-tuning problem, but it's met with criticism regarding its assumption that life originates on
planets. The speaker criticizes modern science for its doctrines, specifically its efforts to evacuate the universe of
meaningful intelligences and its emphasis on mechanics over other potential factors. They express gratitude to those who
support their work.

Checking Nature, Truthfulness & Constructs
 In this talk, the speaker discusses the idea that humanity is currently undergoing a reversal of the Pinocchio gambit,
where we are taking ourselves down instead of an external force doing it for us. The speaker suggests that this is due
to the foundational lies upon which institutions and nations have been built, such as America, and the resulting
division among people. The speaker also discusses the potential dangers of relying too heavily on concrete facts and
science, arguing that it can lead to a halt in development and the emergence of constructs and institutions that are
harmful to humanity. The talk concludes with the speaker expressing hope for finding a path towards truthfulness and
unity, while acknowledging their own vulnerability and confusion.

Checking Networks of Light
 The speaker describes an observation of a phenomenon occurring on the ground where there are hundreds of scintillating
spider strands visible only from certain angles in sunlight. This invisible universe can be seen like stars shining,
especially if one is an ant above. However, this phenomenon can only be noticed from specific positions and angles. The
speaker uses this observation as a metaphor for how our minds perceive the world. We often miss hidden universes due to
cultural conditioning, but if we approach things with wonder, there's an abundance of miraculous experiences to be
found. The speaker mentions that they are usually not one to make videos in the morning, but this observation awakened
their heart and reminded them of another instance when they saw similar light networks on the ground. They also mention
a little bee tree behind them where the bees live.

Checking Night Thoughts
 In this passage, a narrator reflects on the importance of memory in understanding one's true self and purpose,
emphasizing that our souls carry unique virtues that are alive within us and call us to action. They also discuss the
beauty and wonder of existence, encouraging listeners to remember their origins, values, and the interconnectedness of
all beings. The narrator invites the listener to appreciate each day as a new opportunity for growth and to find hope in
the collective remembrance of these truths, even amidst difficulties or confusion. The speaker also expresses gratitude
for those who join them on this journey towards understanding and self-discovery.

Checking Normality - The Problem of Normalization
 In this video, the speaker discusses the nature of human consciousness and the role of knowledge and representation in
shaping our perception of reality. He argues that our technological advancements have led to a distortion of our natural
filters and allowed unintelligent behavior to propagate. The speaker suggests that we can practice active sensing, which
is deeply embodied and relational, as a means of regaining insight and connecting with the true nature of existence. He
emphasizes the importance of returning to ancient ways of seeing and learning together, as well as the virtues inherent
in origin. Despite the challenges and difficulties many people are facing today, he expresses gratitude for those who
join him in exploring the wonders of the universe and striving towards virtue.

Checking Normative Generalizations and Policing of ‘Norms’
 In this episode, Darin Stephenson discusses the impact of language and technology on our society, particularly focusing
on the dangers of tokenized or denotative modes of thinking and the consequences of normative policing in areas such as
human sexuality. He argues that our cultures are too timid to understand the actual nature of human sexuality and that
generalizations about human behavior can be dangerous, especially in online contexts. He also touches on the idea of
shouldness, which he sees as a problematic aspect of human thought. Finally, he emphasizes the importance of creating
diverse and intelligent contexts for human discovery and growth, warning against the negative consequences of settling
for the "low hanging fruit" of culture and the internet.

Checking Nothing to See ： There's No There, There (UFO⧸UAP)
 In this video, the speaker discusses the concept of identity and how it is being manipulated by various entities,
including governments and media organizations. He explains that these entities are making it increasingly difficult for
individuals to determine who or what something is, which undermines the human capacity for vigilance and consciousness.
The speaker suggests that this blurring of categories is a deliberate strategy designed to control populations and
exploit their resources. He also mentions that this issue has become more prominent due to the influence of technology,
particularly social media platforms like Facebook. In conclusion, he encourages viewers to help each other stay awake
and aware in order to combat these manipulative tactics. The speaker does not provide any specific examples or evidence
to support his claims.

Checking Novelty
 In this podcast, Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of approaching psychedelics with respect and humility,
acknowledging their deep historical significance. He warns against using them as a shortcut or quick fix, emphasizing
instead that they should be seen as tools for exploring non-ordinary consciousness and ancient lineages of
relationships. Darin encourages the creation of intelligent and insightful ways to structure these experiences together,
with reverence and playfulness, while also advocating for honoring ancient traditions with authenticity and humility. He
expresses a wish for beautiful adventures and learning for his listeners.

Checking Observation & Identity： The Origins of Sentinel Processes in Consciousness
 The speaker discusses the human mind's natural inclination towards positive relationships and meaningful roles, and how
this is often hindered by negative or critical attention during childhood. He argues that creating supportive cohorts of
individuals can help alleviate these issues and promote healing, growth, and learning. Despite the challenges of
isolation, it is still possible to make progress towards harmony, self-care, and freedom from judgment by taking small
steps and redirecting one's thoughts and behaviors. The speaker thanks the audience for their attention and interest in
learning together, expressing gratitude for their kindness and humanity.

Checking Observation ｜ Time ｜ Intent
 Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of time in his speech, highlighting that it is not just a linear sequence or
metric, but a multifaceted experience that each organism embodies differently. He points out that humans are unique in
our ability to bind time conceptually and linguistically, transferring history to future generations. However, he
suggests that we also have a tendency to skip over the relational investment that underlies everyday life, using
technology as a means to do so faster. This constant skipping leads to an increase in noise and a lack of meaningful
relationships, which he refers to as something malignant seething. He concludes by stating that being present in one's
surroundings can lead to transformative experiences.

Checking Observation(s)
 The speaker discusses the concept of martial arts hidden in dance and art. He explains that in ancient times, martial
artists were often targeted by assassins or soldiers due to their threat to hierarchical authority systems. As a result,
they had to find ways to hide their practices without exposing themselves as a threat. They slowed down their movements
and incorporated them into dancing or other creative arts, thus encrypting the defense asset. The speaker also mentions
that in actual combat, rules about fair fighting go out the window, and the primary goal is to destroy the opponent's
capacity to continue the fight. Finally, he reflects on a social media video he saw of a woman who used martial arts to
protect herself from a potential mugger by throwing her purse and then quickly riding away on his scooter.

Checking On Original Participation in Owen Barfield's Saving the Appearances (a Study in Idolatry)
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses his personal experience of what he calls "original participation," a
phenomenon that involves experiencing the consciousness or history of another being or entity, in this case, a wasp. He
explains that as humans evolved and developed figurative thinking and alpha thinking, original participation became less
frequent and eventually disappeared, leading to a modern world where our daily experiences lack direct participation and
are instead characterized by dead knowledge, or thoughts about objects and their uses. Stephenson suggests that what we
usually understand as "knowledge" is false and empty, and argues that original participation is fundamentally crucial to
our humanity but is often dismissed or attacked in our cultures and societies. He warns that discussing original
participation may lead to negative consequences such as institutionalization or incarceration.

Checking One Animal as Many ｜ Multibird
 The observer, Darin Stephenson, is discussing a group of birds (specifically blue jays, robins, and sparrows) that he
has been watching. He notes that they form a complex network for sensing threats and opportunities collectively, which
he refers to as a "superorganism." This network allows the birds to harness each other's intelligence, curiosity, threat
detection, and opportunity detection. The diversity of sensing in the group is crucial for their collective survival and
prosperity.

Stephenson emphasizes that this behavior is not about competition but cooperation. He mentions that these birds form
signaling networks when they feed together, with each bird having a unique role within the group. This cooperation is
demonstrated through various behaviors, such as early and late signallers, ultra-sensitive birds, bold birds, etc.
Stephenson also highlights the importance of play among animals, using dogs as an example.

In conclusion, the speaker is highlighting the incredible intelligence displayed by these bird groups when they come
together to feed or respond to threats. This behavior serves as a fascinating example of collective decision-making and
cooperation in nature.

Checking Oneirocritica ： The Dream Dictionary and Representational Cognition
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the problems of language and representation that modern humans face and
suggests solutions to overcome these issues. He proposes that we must recognize the nature and origins of these problems
in order to solve them. To do this, he suggests understanding the relationship between our own natures as individuals
and collectives and these problems, particularly their effects on our awareness and faculties. Darin also suggests
learning from ancient texts to understand the development of these predicaments over time. He encourages viewers to
overcome these issues for success in all aspects of their lives.

Checking Organisms are Modes of Timespace — Intelligent Reambiguation
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses his insights into identity, consciousness, and perception. He argues that our
understanding of identity is largely influenced by our cultural catalogs, which are inherently flawed due to their
reliance on representations and labels. Stephenson suggests that we would benefit from dropping these catalogs and
perceiving the world without bias.

He also highlights the importance of approaching unknown phenomena with curiosity rather than rushing to categorize them
based on existing knowledge. This is particularly relevant when discussing topics like UFOs, as they challenge our
current understanding and may require us to rethink our entire catalog system.

Stephenson also touches upon the role of our dreaming mind in dealing with unknown or ambiguous situations, suggesting
that it operates independently of our cultural catalogs and can adapt more easily to new experiences. He concludes by
expressing gratitude for the opportunity to learn and grow together with his audience.

Checking Organisms, Spiderwebs, Assembly Theory
 The podcast discusses the concept of assembly theory proposed by theoretical biologist Stephan Cronin, which suggests
that complex objects cannot form spontaneously and require some sort of guiding force or intelligence for their
assembly. The speaker encourages listeners to explore this theory as it may have significant implications for
understanding the origins of life, the universe, and everything. The speaker also mentions some overlaps with other
theories like Rupert Sheldrake's morphogenesis and expresses hope that assembly theory will either be defeated or
significantly limited in scope, leading to a new way of understanding objects, identity, interactions, and historical
development.

Checking Orphorea 19： The Precedence of Unity
 Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of individuality and its impact on our cultures. He argues that the idea of the
individual is damaging and causes corruption and damage to human nature and hopes. Instead, he suggests that we should
focus on forming and correcting small intelligent unities and socially relate to each other in a way that fulfills our
human purposes and natures. This approach will help us authentically educate ourselves and others, rather than producing
damaged replicas of flawed ideas. Stephenson also emphasizes the need for humanity to understand its intelligence beyond
second order phenomenon and aims to inspire direct experiences of intelligence, being, new ways of seeing, divinity, and
insight. He advocates for returning our wings to their necessary splendor by inverting and denying some results of our
habitual approach to identity and what things are. The speech concludes with a call to turn away from machines having
the final say and rediscovering the aspects of our intelligence that place precedents on unity together.

Checking Ostralis 7 ： SunFather
 The speaker emphasizes the importance of recognizing our true nature as intelligent beings and reconnecting with our
hearts, minds, and each other in a collective effort to preserve humanity. He criticizes modern society for its focus on
machines and technology at the expense of our own intelligence and humanity, likening it to a false hand that dominates
and aggressively seeks to never let go. The speaker suggests that if we are not holding hands in daily life, our minds
become falsified and we lose touch with our true selves. He encourages us to remember what it means to be human and to
work together to discover what it means to be intelligent and to be for each other. The speaker looks forward to the
possibility of recognizing the intelligence of time and space in all living beings and places on earth, and becoming a
living compass that is more like nature than modern society. He concludes by emphasizing the importance of understanding
our origin as something more astonishing than any fantasy or science fiction, and encourages us to join hands with
others to become the taste of our true nature again.

Checking Otopede 11： The Amphitheatre
 In this passage, Darin Stephenson discusses our relationships with representations, ideas, language, knowledge,
culture, and authority and suggests that we have created an "amphitheater" in our minds, filled with imaginary critics
and authorities who do not exist at all. This amphitheater causes us to be afraid of getting a taste of the true beauty
within ourselves, and it leads us to establish a terrifying amphitheater of criticism and judgment in our lives.

Stephenson argues that instead of this amphitheater, we can create an "amphitheater" filled with the living compass of
our hearts and true relationships with ourselves, dreams, being alive, consciousness, intelligence, learning, growth,
and development. He suggests that if we were to get a taste of this, it would be so beautiful and exciting that our
current relationships with language and identity, knowledge, and culture might not survive.

Stephenson calls for us to rediscover a human art of orienteering together in life, in language, in the constructs, and
to bring some living spirit back into the center of our lives. He suggests that we can learn how to do this together,
with each day taking us further on this journey. The speaker's overall message is one of hope and possibility for a
future where humans can orient themselves in authentic relationships with nature, intelligence, learning, and growth.

Checking Our Hidden Humanity ｜ Interiorty vs Culture
 The speaker discusses the metaphorical concept of two children representing the object child, which represents human
self-destructiveness, and the water child, which represents human potential for harmony with nature and interiority. He
suggests that society today is dominated by the object child, leading to apocalyptic consequences. To rectify this, he
proposes the recognition and reemergence of the water child in our lives and the retrieval of the object child from its
competitive relationship with its origin. The goal is to encompass the object child within the water child's awareness,
which will stop it from acting destructively and enable it to contribute positively to society. The speaker emphasizes
that while the task may seem overwhelming on a global scale, it is achievable in smaller, interpersonal relationships.

Checking Our Interiority： Beyond Norms and Generalizations
 The speaker discusses how one's orientation, perspective, and purpose influence their judgments of situations as good
or bad. They also talk about how one can form psychic organs that produce either positive or negative feedback based on
their experiences with authority figures. The speaker notes that it is important to be aware of these aspects in order
to become consciously selective and creative in one's interiority and relationships, rather than being subject to the
results of past behavior. They also mention that the division between good and evil can be deceptive due to the
difficulty of sudden radical transformations, but that it is still important to distinguish between what is beneficial
and harmful. The speaker concludes by inviting comments, suggestions, ideas, concerns, questions from the audience and
expressing gratitude for their attention.

Checking Our Models, Our Experts： Mostly Wrong, Most of the Time
 In this video, the speaker discusses the critical state of our planet and humanity due to climate change. He emphasizes
that the problem isn't climate change itself, but our destruction of the ecologies that maintain a stable environment on
Earth. The speaker argues that human intelligence is far less intelligent than the planet itself, and the destruction we
are causing is equivalent to shooting our mother.

He criticizes science, calling it a knowledge discipline that tortures billions of living beings for false information,
serving lethal purposes and deadly masters. The speaker encourages viewers to work together and remember their purpose
as human beings on this beautiful planet, emphasizing the importance of unity and understanding the nature of life on
Earth.

Checking Our Myth of the Nuclear Family is Broken
 The speaker discusses the importance of understanding the roles that parents were cast into during their upbringing,
which might have led to difficult and traumatic childhoods. They suggest that if one or both parents suffered, it was
often because they were placed in roles they couldn't fulfill due to the unnatural conditions of the family dynamics.
The speaker emphasizes that demanding or expecting a parent to fulfill specific roles can lead to torture, litigation,
and other harmful practices. Instead, the speaker encourages understanding and empathy for these parents as they may
have been in situations they were unprepared for. They also propose the need for tightly knit pod-like groups that mimic
our natural social structures for healthy child rearing and growth.

Checking Our Nonordinary Faculties ｜ The Undiscovered Country
 Darin Stephenson discusses his journey with martial arts as a vehicle for understanding human potential and spiritual
development. He emphasizes that the practice of internal martial arts allows individuals to explore their bodies in ways
otherwise inaccessible, developing abilities that might appear extrasensory. However, he is not interested in debating
whether these abilities are metaphysical; rather, he finds the existence of them fascinating. Stephenson suggests that
one must personally resolve the path to understanding, likening it to a quest or puzzle that cannot be described by
others. He concludes with well-wishes for his listeners' paths and lives.

Checking Pace and Opportunity： The Disaster of Acceleration
 The speaker discusses how modern technology has altered our perception of time, compressing it into smaller units that
have removed the opportunity for meaningful relationships and learning. This compression is not only evident in work
environments but also in personal relationships such as courtships. The speaker suggests that by slowing down and
creating more space for presence and awareness, we can regain creativity, health, and internal synchronization, allowing
us to live more fulfilling lives. He calls this concept "task coherence," which refers to the sacredness of the space in
which we originate and pursue goals that matter to us. The speaker also mentions how technology interrupts our tasks
constantly, creating a state of constant interruption and distraction. The speaker suggests that by eliminating these
distractions, we can regain soverenty over time and create meaningful lives.

Checking Paradise 9： This is all the worlds.
 The speaker reflects on the idea that our world, the present moment, is the true spirit world and the only world we
know, contrary to what many stories, science, religions, and cultural narratives suggest. He encourages us to look
within ourselves and our lives for a deeper understanding of concepts like reincarnation, incarnation, and death,
suggesting that each year can be considered a complete life and death cycle. The speaker emphasizes that the mysteries
of science and religion are speaking to our own ears, singing with our own voices. He encourages us to remember our true
origin, the living world, this moment, what it means to incarnate now, to have a new incarnation now, and to know its
soul as our own. The speaker argues that we live in all we long for elsewhere and that paradise is here with each other,
suggesting there is no other.

Checking Paranormality vs Modernity
 The speaker discusses the complexities of perception and cognition, highlighting the differences between reality and
our individual interpretations of it. They mention how people can have vastly different experiences in the same
situation due to their unique worldviews. They also discuss the concept of magic and psychics, suggesting that some
individuals may exploit others' beliefs for personal gain, while others may genuinely believe they possess supernatural
abilities but are actually delusional. The speaker emphasizes the importance of being aware of these issues without
dismissing the potential existence of non-ordinary phenomena. They conclude by expressing hope for continued learning
and growth with like-minded individuals.

Checking Part 1 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 Darin Stephenson describes his journey in repatriating a sacred Blackfoot artifact from Harvard University. The item
was a beaver bundle, which embodies the original treaty between humans and animals. This bundle is very old, possibly
dating back to when dogs were first domesticated. It's significant because it's the first medicine bundle in the
Blackfoot tradition, containing skins from animals who gave knowledge to humans in a treaty agreement situation. The
bundle absorbs new things and experiences from people or animals, validating profoundly sacred, powerful, or meaningful
gifts into the bundle through ceremonial processes. Stephenson emphasizes that the beaver bundle serves as the hub of
transfers in the Blackfoot tradition, representing the treaty between living beings in North America.

Checking Part 1： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis
 In this part of the conversation, the speaker shares an experience they had while in Africa where they encountered a
woman named Molly Doma who had a family of traveling networks, which she called "the nature of traveling." The speaker
also describes their encounter with their grandfather Jasper James, who was a root doctor and magician. He lived on a
large piece of land in South Carolina, and the speaker would occasionally visit him. Jasper had cans hanging from his
ceiling that held spirits, as he was a local root doctor. Despite being afraid of him, the speaker wishes they could
have learned more about him. The speaker also mentions that Jasper was born under indentured servitude in South Carolina
during the 20s or 30s. They do not know much about the specific reasons for this, but it is believed to be related to
debt and unfair business practices.

Checking Part 2 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 In the story "Owl Child", two enemies come across each other in a storm during their journey. They initially
communicate through body movements and signs, and eventually realize that they are not so different from each other. The
story takes place in prehistoric times when there were no written records or symbols, but instead people communicated
with each other using sign language as the lingua franca. After they find out that their stories are very similar, they
come up with a plan to meet and prove that they had fought the enemy together. They cut pieces of their hair and bring
them back home to tell their respective tribes about their supposed victory against the enemy. However, when it comes
time for their people to break apart and move into smaller camps, they are grieving at the separation. While most people
are already moving out, two boys seem tied in a game of hoop and arrow. But they disagree that they were tied. In the
end, owl child or be Gunny boy picked up a weapon and killed the snake boy. This rekindled the whole feud that they had
supposedly overcome.

Checking Part 2： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis
 The guest's name is Darin Stephenson, and he is from Burkina Faso in West Africa. He was born into a Jehovah's Witness
family and went through a water baptism ritual at age 13 as part of his commitment to the religion. However, after the
water baptism, Darin experienced a significant mental shift and felt free from the admonitions he had been receiving
from his family and religion. He explained that religions like Jehovah's Witnesses have weaponized their teachings over
time by capturing specific vulnerabilities in people's psyches, such as the threat of eternal damnation or social
isolation. The guest mentioned that these threats are particularly impactful for teenagers or preteens, who may feel
terrified at the thought of losing their family or being ejected from relationships. Additionally, religions like
Jehovah's Witnesses use eschatological visions, or the belief in the world ending, to manipulate and control their
followers. The guest will continue discussing his experiences growing up as a Jehovah's Witness and his eventual move to
Africa, where he learned more about traditional African spiritual practices.

Checking Part 3 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 In the Blackfoot First Nation, the presence of rattlesnakes in their territory serves as an example of a treaty or
agreement between humans and animals. Rattlesnakes have evolved to warn humans of their presence by making a distinctive
rattle sound. This is a unique trait that can be found only in North America because it signifies an understanding that
humans and animals should not kill each other simply for existing in the same space. The treaty allows the rattlesnake
to keep its rattle, providing a warning to humans and preserving the life of both the snake and the human. In places
where this agreement is not respected by humans, rattlesnakes begin to lose their rattles, potentially leading to human
fatalities due to lack of warning. This treaty or agreement serves as an example of Blackfoot knowledge being aligned
with mainstream science and ecology.

Checking Part 3： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis
 Darin Stephenson shares his experiences living in Africa with his wife and 300 other wives. They bought a farm and
started a farm, but faced difficulties such as termite infestations and lion sightings. The land was cursed by ancestors
and demons, which they discovered after hearing loud noises at night. One time, Darin got sick with dysentery and had to
venture out to the field where he heard loud singing, laughter, and talking. Despite it being his property, no one else
would go there. He witnessed a baby black mamba snake that almost attacked him while he was using the bathroom. There
were recurring themes of close encounters with death, illnesses, burials, and cleansing by fire, nature, burial, and
mineral water.

Checking Part 4 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 In this segment, the speaker discusses his experience with the Blackfeet Nation and their interactions with museums
regarding the repatriation of cultural artifacts. He initially reached out to a Blackfoot Tribal Council member named
Earl Bearwaters for information on where certain artifacts were located around the world. However, Earl was hesitant to
share information due to concerns about empowering the community.

Subsequently, the speaker received a call from George Horse Capture, who criticized his efforts and refused to provide
any data from the Smithsonian. The speaker then approached his advisor at the University of Massachusetts for guidance,
but was told to leave it alone for the time being.

A few days later, he received another phone call from Joyce Spoonhunter, a cousin of Earl Bearwaters and the person on
the Federal Register for Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act. She expressed concern about the
speaker's actions and informed him that she was responsible for collecting inventories of cultural artifacts for their
tribe.

Joyce then invited the speaker to negotiate the repatriation of a beaver bundle from Harvard University, where it was
being held in their collection. The speaker contacted Harvard, who put him in touch with Emery-Victor Scout, a new
repatriation liaison at the university.

The speaker developed a rapport with Emery and even gifted her wine from his home region to help win her over. She then
coached him on how to craft a compelling repatriation claim that would overcome any legal objections Harvard might
raise. The speaker was able to successfully negotiate the return of the beaver bundle thanks to Emery's guidance.

Checking Part 4： A Conversation With Mark K. Charlton-Davis
 Darin Stephenson, an American man of African descent, shared his experiences in Africa during the 1980s and early '90s.
He met a man called Didier who claimed to be a sorcerer. With Didier's guidance, he embarked on various spiritual
journeys and encounters, including a trip through the crocodile river that left him disoriented for several days.
Stephenson also mentioned meeting a mysterious figure named Monodoma, whose brother led them across the crocodile river.

In one of his trips, Stephenson visited a man called Kungule in Burkina Faso and received body markings as tokens of
power. These markings were made by using sharpened sticks to carve into his skin, leaving permanent scars. He also
mentioned experiencing invisibility while being pursued by police due to a trick involving threads and words he was told
to use.

However, Stephenson's life in Africa was cut short when he lost everything - including the land - after his wife
disappeared with all their money. He briefly returned to Burkina Faso where he received more body markings, this time
from a man named Kungule.

Summarize: Darin Stephenson, an American man of African descent, shared his experiences in Africa during the 1980s and
early '90s. He met a sorcerer called Didier and embarked on various spiritual journeys and encounters, including a trip
through the crocodile river which left him disoriented for days. Stephenson also mentioned encountering a mysterious
figure named Monodoma, whose brother led them across the crocodile river.

In one of his trips to Burkina Faso, he visited a man called Kungule and received body markings as tokens of power.
These markings were made using sharpened sticks to carve into his skin, leaving permanent scars. He also mentioned
experiencing invisibility while being pursued by police due to a trick involving threads and words he was told to use.

Checking Part 5 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 Alan and Carol successfully retrieved a beaver bundle from Harvard University in May 1996. Before leaving, Carol and
Tom spent an extra day with Darin, touring Boston and getting to know each other better. The bundle was transferred to
Alan after its return to the tribe. Joyce Spoonhunter then asked Darin to document a tour of collections by a group of
elders who had previously retrieved the beaver bundle from Harvard. He used his remaining GI bill funds to join them on
their trip, which included stops in Washington DC, New York, and Chicago.

Checking Part 6 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 Darin Stephenson recounts his early life and education in Montana, and describes his experiences working with various
Native American tribes on repatriation projects. He shares an anecdote about how he met his wife Danielle while staying
at the home of Martin and Pam in Montana. They eventually eloped and started working together on repatriation projects.
Darin also discusses the beginning of his work with the Hoopa tribe, specifically a project to photograph collections at
Harvard's Peabody Museum. While going through the museum's storage, Darin touches a stone pipe that he recognizes as a
tool for sucking sickness out of people rather than a smoking pipe. This recognition causes him to blackout briefly
before regaining control. Darin does not provide further details about this experience or its implications.

Checking Part 7 - Ryan First Diver tells the story of the first Beaver Bundle repatriation from Museums
 The speaker, Darin Stephenson, shared an experience he had at a museum where he touched a stone pipe and felt an
intense electrical sensation that made him feel like he was being put to sleep and caused flu-like symptoms. He later
learned that this artifact was from the Hoopa tribe in Northern California. The Hoopa tribe has a unique cultural
history with its own language and ceremonies, and the speaker experienced "magic" during his visit to their valley. The
tribe still preserves much of their traditional way of life, including their old villages and ceremonies. Stephenson
also mentioned that the men and women in the Hoopa tribe have distinct roles and that outsiders born outside of a
specific season are considered illegitimate. He expressed gratitude for being able to share these stories and discussed
how bringing artifacts back from this trip had significantly impacted the community and education in the area.

Checking Passages from Sufism and Surrealism (Adonis) pp 134-136
 The passage discusses the experience of writing from the perspective of Sufism and Surrealism, highlighting the
aspiration of a Sufi writer to discover the universal language that expresses the correspondence between infinite
meaning and finite image. This language is intoxicated, delirious, and figurative, allowing for the invisible to be
brought into the visible world. The image in Sufi figurative language is not an isolated part but an organic part of
every macrocosm, linking us to symbol and myth. It originates from the dialectic between God and man, revealing dreams,
irrational elements, and deeper truths that cannot be understood logically or rationally. The value of such expression
lies in its ability to reveal the infinite dimension in man and the world, with constant movement towards discovering
the infinite containing a continuous demolition of forms. In Sufi language, the speaker is not the one who thinks and
writes but is thought about and written about, as the inner meaning is what makes him speak and write.

Checking Passages from Sufism and Surrealism
 In the chapter "The Aesthetic Dimension" of Adonis, Sufism and Surrealism, it is discussed that the writings of Sufi
poets such as Al-Nafari, Al-Tawwihidi, and Ibn Arabi have significantly influenced Arab poetical writing. Three
characteristics of this school of writing are highlighted:

1. Poetry transcends form and is emotion and action at the same time, reflecting human consciousness and thought. It
brings together emotions and meaning.
2. External material or natural reality is only a part of existence; poets who limit their expression to the external
aspect express only what everyone knows. Sufi poets focus on understanding the internal movement, growth, and hidden
truths within nature.
3. Truth does not exist in the world of phenomena but is hidden inside things in their concealed world. Man can reach it
through specific knowledge which is neither conventional nor scientific. The inner culture, with its emotions, desires,
dreams, and unconscious natural instincts, goes beyond the culture of the spirit in its religious forms.

Additionally, myth and symbol are used as means to explore greater depths and broader horizons, helping us return to the
collective unconscious, human memory, and the past. They represent the point between the apparent and concealed, the
visible and invisible, serving as expressions of different levels of all kinds of reality. On this level, poetry becomes
a form of knowledge.

Checking People and their Animals
 The speaker discusses their observations of regulars at a lake in San Francisco, noting how appearances can be
misleading and one cannot truly know another person based solely on appearance. They highlight the concept of
'costumes', which help individuals maintain different layers of their personal lives. The speaker also mentions their
observation of a man and his dog, suggesting that they may share a connection. They touch upon the complexity of human
relationships and the importance of testing one's intuitions, as everyone believes themselves to be intuitive. The
speaker expresses concern about the misleading nature of beauty or wealth and its potential negative impact on personal
development. Lastly, they bring up the idea that we can form deep connections with places, people, and even animals,
having filial relationships with them in some cases. The speaker ends by hoping for a future where individuals can
create contexts to play, learn, and grow together, allowing for a deeper understanding of these complex capacities.

Checking Perspective and Perception
 The speaker discusses his unique intellect and how it has shaped his life experiences. He mentions that as he
approaches old age, he finds living long not particularly rewarding due to feelings of invisibility and isolation from
loved ones. He emphasizes the importance of surrounding oneself with caring relationships in old age and urges listeners
to consider the plight of the elderly. He also warns against rejecting or ignoring the elderly as they can still have
much to offer, even if their abilities are declining. The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for his audience and
inviting them to subscribe, like, or comment on the podcast.

Checking Phenological Engagement： Stow Lake Blue Heron Social Tree
 A Great Blue Heron display of dominance was observed at Stowe Lake's Socia Tree, where multiple males are preparing to
establish territories for nesting. One bird, who had previously been chased twice, returned to the tree, prompting
displays of power and size from other males. The activity is more complex than just establishing dominance as humans
might perceive it, but it does serve to reinforce the hierarchy. The tree, which has been used for at least a decade,
has approximately 8-9 nests.

Checking Phenology, Time and Synchronization
 In this passage, the speaker reflects on the nature of life, intelligence, and time while walking in a forest. They
discuss the concept of driving phenomena, where our nervous system preserves behaviors or situations beyond their use,
causing an altered perception. The speaker mentions listening to Ryan's lectures and participating in his missions,
considering them valuable. They also talk about a frog species they discovered during their walk, which is struggling to
find food. The speaker ends by discussing photic driving phenomena and its effect on the perception of clouds passing
by. They express hope that their conversation opens a door to remembering how to participate with living beings and
places in a way that aligns with our humanity and nature.

Checking Phyllia 0⧸1 ： Pollens： The Living Dusts ( Bees ？ Angels )
 In this passage, the speaker uses an analogy between pollen from flowers and information, knowledge, or "pollens" in
human society to explore the relationship between sources of knowledge and the recipients or transmitters of that
knowledge. The speaker suggests that just as bees transport pollen from one flower to another, there are agents in human
society that transport knowledge from one mind to another. However, unlike natural bees, the agents in human society
transporting information may not be living beings but rather things like media, technology, or other forms of
communication.

The speaker argues that we must reawaken our relationship with the "real bees," the species that live between minds and
that are essential to true insight, awe, or fear at the sight of any organism. The memory and root of this awe will
explode, revealing the origin of insight, birthrights, true intelligence, and tryst with these bees as their allies.
However, we've forgotten how to know living things and participate in being with them, and most of our fictions,
stories, magic, religions, or science won't bring it to you.

In summary, the speaker uses an analogy between pollen from flowers and information in human society to explore the
relationship between sources of knowledge or information and the transmitters or recipients of that knowledge. The
speaker suggests that just as bees transport pollen between flowers, there are agents in human society that transport
information between minds, but unlike natural bees, these agents may not be living beings. The speaker argues that we
must reawaken our relationship with "real bees," the species that live between minds to experience true insight and awe.

Checking Physics as Information  ： The Irony of Science ： Nuclear War
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses various problems in modern science and society, highlighting the potential
dangers of their continued existence. He mentions that scientific measurements have been manipulated to produce
consistent results, which can limit our understanding of the natural world. He also criticizes the current state of
capitalism, warning that it could lead to the destruction of life on Earth. Stephenson suggests that we need to
reconsider our values and priorities as a species in order to preserve life and ensure the future success of the human
experiment. Overall, he encourages viewers to think critically about the world around them and work towards positive
change.

Checking Physics： The Problem of Function as Identity
 Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of understanding the nature of the universe beyond scientific explanations
and functions. He emphasizes that as a species, humans have invested too much in technological development at the
expense of creating intelligent societies. He suggests that we should redirect our focus towards developing social,
ecological, and relational intelligence to understand the universe's identity and meaningful origin. Stephenson argues
that if we fail to do so, we risk alienating ourselves from the network of intelligent worlds and facing consequences
similar to those of a diseased organism within an immune system. He encourages listeners to share their ideas for
fostering such a societal revolution.

Checking Potemkin 19： Identity： Self and Mind
 Darren Stephenson suggests that our individual minds are not isolated entities, but rather they are shaped and
influenced by our relationships with others. He argues that our current models of selfhood, which emphasize the
independence and separation of individuals, hinder us from fully understanding what it means to be an individual or to
be together. Instead, he proposes that we should strive for unity with others in order to tap into a deeper, more fluid
form of intelligence that is inherent to our nature as human beings. This intelligence, which transcends the limitations
imposed by language and culture, can be experienced through deep connections with other living beings. Darren has had
profound experiences of this kind of connection and believes that it holds the key to unlocking our full potential as
humans. He encourages us to seek out contexts where we can truly explore what it means to be alive or intelligent or
human without the constraints of cultural conditioning and preconceived notions about selfhood.

Checking Precognition
 In this excerpt, the speaker discusses precognition, which refers to the ability to know or foresee future events with
certainty. This is a complex topic that involves different branches of culture such as skeptics, believers, and
religious perspectives. The speaker highlights that while skepticism about precognition is reasonable, it is often
focused on areas other than precognition itself. Believers, on the other hand, may have varying degrees of fascination
with precognition's implications. Religious perspectives also play a role in how precognition is perceived, with some
religions viewing such abilities as evil, sinful, or bad magic.

The speaker emphasizes that while not all precognition happens in visions, it can manifest in other ways such as
feelings or forebodings. They provide examples of individuals who chased their dreams and experiences into the future,
leading to tangible results. However, the speaker acknowledges that our orientations may affect outcomes in a more
subtle way.

The speaker also discusses the complexity of distinguishing between genuine precognitive experiences and delusions, as
well as the existence of techniques designed to create false impressions of psychic abilities. They note that these
faculties are natural to all human beings but take different forms in different people, cultures, and times. The speaker
highlights that the authentic functioning of these abilities often leads to delusion due to the confusion surrounding
their explanation.

In summary, the speaker discusses precognition as a complex phenomenon related to the natural faculties of human minds,
which can manifest in various ways and lead to tangible results, but are often misunderstood due to cultural, religious,
and scientific perspectives, as well as the existence of delusion and techniques intended to create false impressions.

Checking Prediction
 The speaker discusses the evolution of human minds and how our increasing ability to predict things has led to a
collapse of degrees of freedom and diverse dimensionality in our conscious and creative experience. This collapse can
result in a mechanized and robotic life, lacking in adventure and novelty, and leading to feelings of dead time. The
speaker suggests that language and technology are major contributors to this problem as they have allowed us to create
tokenized representations of valuable things like meaningful roles, adventures, and relationships, rather than
experiencing them directly. The speaker encourages an awareness that language is a toy and we must play the game rather
than being played by it in order to preserve the unknowable and unknown aspects of the universe. The speaker suggests
this mindset can protect us from being trapped by modern life, technology, ideology, religion, societies, nations,
medicine, and so on, which are all limited in scope compared to what is available to us as beings. The speaker concludes
by encouraging liberation from these ancient traps for the sake of personal freedom.

Checking Privacy ： The Disappearing Necessity
 The speaker discusses the increasing threats to privacy in our digital age and how it could lead to a future where
human lives are dominated by technology. He proposes the creation of a Knowledge Amp, a system that would protect
personal analytics and create a browser that works like the human mind, allowing users to search the internet as if they
were famous minds from history. The Knowledge Amp would also include a verity sentinel, a data cache, and a social
networking aspect for teamwork and competition. The speaker warns that without such systems, privacy will be lost and
humanity could become enslaved by technology. He encourages listeners to join him in finding a way past this potential
future and protect the right to privacy.

Checking Prodigy and Context
 In this monologue, a speaker named Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of intelligence and how it applies to both
humans and other forms of life on Earth. He argues that our understanding of intelligence is limited because we have
overlooked the intelligence of living organisms around us, including animals and plants. The speaker suggests that our
ancestors had a deeper understanding of these intelligences and that we should aim to recover this knowledge. He
advocates for a return to a more holistic view of humanity, one that acknowledges and celebrates all facets of human
intelligence and potential, and he emphasizes the importance of humility and curiosity in this endeavor. The speaker
believes that by reconnecting with the natural world and embracing our origins as part of the living places on Earth, we
can regain a sense of purpose and meaning that is currently lacking in modern society.

Checking Public and Personal Cults are Deadly Fictions
 This individual urges listeners to leave their cults and religions behind, claiming that they have no understanding of
spirituality or nature. They assert that human cultures are destroying ecosystems, and individuals must reconnect with
the source of life on earth to discover the truth about where they came from. The speaker expresses concern that
humanity's current actions will wipe out nature and destroy the future of our species. They urge people to stop relying
on abstract religions and instead take action to protect the environment, arguing that contacting nature directly is
essential for understanding its intelligence and true value. The speaker's language is passionate and intense,
reflecting their conviction about the urgency of this message.

Checking Purpose & Context
 In this video, Darin discusses the importance of context and purpose in shaping our human experience. He uses metaphors
like a journey or travel from a place of departure towards a destination to reflect upon these matters. He argues that
in a crisis, we may see both the worst and best aspects of humanity, depending on one's purpose or habitual language.

Darin also points out that context and purpose are fundamental to how we understand and experience our humanity. They
illuminate aspects of our human experience with awareness, transform relationships with them, and offer new
opportunities for learning, understanding, growing, inventing roles and relationships inhabited by ourselves or others.

Finally, he expresses his gratitude for the chance to reflect on these matters with interested others like you. He also
looks forward to more exploration and wonder together soon.

Checking Purpose and Evolution ： It's Not Competition. It's Uplift
 Darin Stephenson proposes a shift in how we perceive and engage with intelligence, urging us to move away from
destruction and towards unity among all living beings. He suggests that by pausing on activities like mutilating each
other and destroying the planet, we can start discovering non-human intelligences that are more sophisticated than our
wildest science fiction. Stephenson emphasizes that we need to learn together, put aside our differences, and find out
what's happening around us as a united collective. He encourages us to pause on activities like criticism without
intelligence, terror in social media, hate based on lifestyle choices, and women being objectified. The ultimate goal is
for our diversity to become power, lifting us all up instead of causing division and destruction.

Checking Purpose, Courtship, Orgasm
 The speaker discusses the concept of eros, which he defines as a deep emotional, intellectual, and spiritual desire for
another person that transcends physical attraction. He highlights the importance of courtship and long-term
relationships in exploring the many facets of this desire, emphasizing the potential for mutual engagement in love,
adoration, discovery, and exploration. The speaker also praises the relational eros found in companionship, which can
provide profound intimacies without necessarily being sexual. He encourages listeners to seek out these deep, fulfilling
relationships to enrich their lives beyond the superficiality of modern society.

Checking Qualia ： 5： Wave, Nucleation, ‘Individuals’
 The speaker discusses the concept of wave-particle duality as a metaphor for our relationship with consciousness,
particularly in understanding the nature of identity and reality. They argue that our minds collapse the wave of
experience and possibility into descriptions or particles by attaching abstract values and fixed identities to things,
which is limiting and often unhelpful in understanding complex phenomena. Instead, the speaker suggests a more
intelligent and flexible approach where we remain aware of the process of collapsing these things, considering the
impact of our purposes on the outcome, and moving intelligently forward without rigidly fixing identities or values.
This approach, they argue, is more human and realistic than freezing identities for narrow purposes such as prosecution
or abstract reasoning, which can be destructive to our ability to participate actively in these processes. The speaker
also mentions that this idea is related to mystical traditions that require conscious awareness of how purpose,
intention, and choice of framework determine our relationships with identity, qualities, values, ethics, morals, and
even purposes.

Checking Qualities ： Scope and Reference
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of representational cognition, which refers to our human
tendency to abstract and categorize information into entities and processes that resemble organisms. He suggests that
these representational constructs, such as ideas, beliefs, emotions, and memories, can become stifling and limiting if
we focus too much on them, hindering our ability to access our true potential and deeper self. He compares this to the
phenomenon of a hand trying to conquer its origin, which would ultimately lead to its own death.

Stephenson argues that these representational constructs are not separate from us but are rather an integral part of who
we are as individuals and as a species. They exist beneath our structured fictions and aggressive ideas and language,
thriving and hoping for opportunities to emerge into embodiment and expression. He believes that understanding and
nurturing these constructs can help us rejuvenate our humanity and potentially transform our world.

The speaker expresses his desire to continue learning and growing with the audience in order to better understand the
history and present situation of human beings, and to work towards fulfilling dreams and aspirations and transforming
how we relate to the representational constructs that make up our minds. He encourages the audience to share in this
quest for understanding and growth.

Checking Questions and Questing
 The speaker encourages listeners to engage in self-initiated quests as a means of igniting passion, curiosity, and
intelligence within oneself. This can range from small playful quests, like a secret agent mission for simple errands,
to larger, more profound quests that require commitment and courage. These quests can help one break out of routine,
foster a sense of adventure, and develop unique faculties and relationships. The speaker emphasizes the importance of
helping others in crisis or need as a way of participating in adventures that are meaningful and fulfilling. They also
encourage listeners to embrace the possibility of mistakes and learning from them, as part of the questing process. In
conclusion, the speaker suggests that quests can help foster growth, understanding, joy, and liberation, if approached
with an open heart and mind.

Checking Questions and Quests
 The speaker discussed the importance of having quests and pursuing them throughout one's life. He mentioned that some
people quest for knowledge in various fields such as mathematics, biology, or sociology. However, he stated that the
most important question is not a single question but rather a collection of questions related to different areas of
study. The speaker believes that good quests can be unique to individuals and bring a sense of excitement and adventure.
He mentioned that some quests have risks and may even lead to injury or isolation. Lastly, he emphasized the importance
of having partners in quest who share similar curiosity, passion, and drive to learn together for mutual benefit.

Checking Reflections and The Material Universe
 The speaker discusses the nature of reality and our understanding of it through the analogy of water reflections. He
suggests that our perception of distinctness, lifespans, and organimal embodiments might be illusory, similar to how a
camera records visuals. He emphasizes that memory is not a recording, suggesting that our physical universe could best
understood as a reflection beyond time and space, where essential beings, souls or essences incarnate into. He concludes
by highlighting the vast variety of life forms over eons, the living places, their activities and specializations, forms
eyes, hearts, feelings, reflecting the character of a transcendental world beyond it.

Checking Reflections on Dreaming
 This video explores the topic of dreaming as a fundamental aspect of human consciousness. The speaker discusses various
perspectives on dreams, including psychological, spiritual, and scientific ones. He highlights the importance of
preserving our unique relationship with dreaming and avoiding being enchanted by external narratives about dreaming. The
speaker encourages exploring dreams with wonder and curiosity and suggests speaking to the dreaming mind from a deep
place within ourselves. He also proposes that dreaming is like a reflection, implying it represents something deeper and
essential to our humanity. The video ends with a call to respect and appreciate our dreams, hoping they will enrich our
waking lives.

Checking Reflections： Ideas and Suppositions
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the human tendency to become trapped in certain patterns of thought and
behavior due to familiarity and habit, which can lead to feelings of unhappiness or dissatisfaction despite external
indicators of well-being such as physical health and relationships. He suggests that these "prisons" are largely
invisible because they have become ingrained in our daily perspectives, and proposes that a curious, playful approach to
understanding their origins and nature can help lead us towards freedom. The speaker ends by expressing hope for a path
of growth and discovery that leads to greater liberation and understanding of the human condition.

Checking Relation(ship) ｜ Living Places
 The speaker discusses the importance of nature and its influence on humans' interiority and their relationship with
other living beings. They highlight that every living being understands relation, and humans are a unique opportunity
for plants, animals, insects, and microorganisms to affect human behavior. Despite humans' perceived superiority, their
actions pose grave danger to many other species. The speaker emphasizes the importance of being aware of this connection
and living in harmony with nature. They also briefly mention the possibility of mind-to-mind connections and suggest
that our current understanding is limited, but participation is possible through intimacy.

Checking Remains of a Raptor Kill at SF Botanical Gardens
 A raptor has eaten a pigeon near a frog pond in the botanical garden, leaving behind an explosion of inner feathers
with golden ones visible on the stump where the meal took place. The speaker, Darin Stephenson, finds this phenomenon
astonishing due to the sudden appearance of the remains and the intentional selection of the location by the raptor for
its meal.

Checking Rememberer
 In this poetic monologue, a speaker reflects on the importance of ambiguity in human communication and relationships,
using water as an analogy for femininity and sun for masculinity. They express concerns about the loss of ambiguity due
to trends towards categorization, representation, and rational analysis. The speaker recalls a conversation with a young
rabbi who expressed ownership over women, but they do not dissect or criticize it explicitly. Instead, they emphasize
the need to preserve individual uniqueness and the ability to sense opportunities for growth in human incarnation. They
compare the sun's light to the power of ambiguity, which provides space for curiosity, fear, wonder, and intimacy. The
speaker wishes for a return to this dreaming state of togetherness in the face of modernity's tendency to deprive us of
such experiences. They express love for all beings and hope that people's paths in life are sweet, beautiful, and true.

Checking Remembering
 In this passage, the author reflects on a moment of lucid dreaming and considers the nature of consciousness, reality,
and self-awareness. He posits that our ordinary waking mind may not fully grasp the complexity and interconnectedness of
all life forms, including ourselves. The author suggests that the distinction between wakefulness and dreaming might not
be as clear-cut as we assume, and that dreams might contain dimensions of awareness we have yet to fully explore. He
expresses a desire for lucid awakening, a state where one is aware they are dreaming, in order to better understand the
interplay between the conscious and unconscious mind. The passage concludes with the author's longing for increased
self-awareness and understanding of reality.

Checking Reputation in Relation
 The speaker discusses the concept of mental disorganization and its various forms such as paranoid schizophrenia and
ecstatic schizophrenia. He warns against the collapse of identities into simple points and encourages a more nuanced
understanding of living beings, including humans, as "peoples." The speaker argues that this perspective can foster deep
and meaningful connections with other living beings and escape the cognitive overlays that often inhibit such
relationships.

In the context of his own experience observing and interacting with the natural world, the speaker notes a complex
situation involving birds in his garden where territorial issues may be at play, particularly around nesting time. He
suggests that the relationship between humans and other living beings is powerful but risky due to our intentions, which
can sometimes lead to harm. The speaker emphasizes the need for careful observation and attention when relating with
other living beings to avoid causing unnecessary harm or distress.

Finally, the speaker encourages a mindful approach to relating with other living beings, acknowledging their awareness
of humans as both dangerous and potentially beneficial companions. He argues that this perspective can unlock our
inherent capacities for deep relationship, creativity, beauty, and resonant ancient beauty, which are the heart of our
humanity.

Checking Resonance
 The speaker describes patterns in water reflections that emanate from various sources, including trees and his own face
reflected in the video he's recording. He emphasizes that the observer's role cannot be shown in the video. Essentially,
he is pointing out how the observer's perspective, represented by his eyes, plays a crucial but unseen role in observing
the emanations and reflections in the water.

Checking Responding to Failure, Pain and Death
 The speaker discusses how we can work hard and continue living even when feeling broken, helpless, and hopeless. They
suggest releasing our grip on control and letting ourselves be gentle, kind, or even release our grasp when needed. We
should pay attention to crises and failures with clear, uncommitted attention. We should find space for crisis, failure,
illness, death, loss, confusion, psychosis, isolation, injury in our hearts and awareness without inviting them. When we
feel this way, it's okay to slow down, but don't bind too closely to those feelings because openness of possibility and
living may disappear.

The speaker suggests practicing gratitude for the beautiful things that are still part of our experience moment to
moment, even when things have become grim. They encourage us to reach out to someone who cares and trusts us or be that
person for someone else. We should also reconnect with nature by spending time in wonder, remembrance, and beauty. The
speaker concludes by saying their life is for now.

Checking Ric ： Est
 In this poetic piece, Darin Stephenson uses vivid and metaphorical language to express a sense of violence, power, and
struggle. The speaker appears to be embracing or absorbing destructive forces (symbolized by bombs), seemingly as a
means of survival or empowerment. They find solace in death, bullets, and guns, viewing them as part of their identity
or salvation. There's an underlying theme of the intersection between technology (media) and justice, with the speaker
suggesting that the media is a source of injustice. The poem suggests a violent act, possibly a school shooting, where
the speaker's lips (symbolizing their power or voice) trigger the gun, causing destruction. The poem concludes by
emphasizing labels such as privilege, prison, and primate, suggesting these concepts are interconnected with the
violence and destruction depicted in the poem. However, without more context, the specific meaning of this poem may vary
depending on personal interpretation.

Checking Ryan First Diver - The First Repatriation of a Blackfoot Beaver Bundle
 This passage discusses a conversation about Native American tribes and their cultural practices in Hoopa Valley in
California. The Hoopa tribe is located near the confluence of the Trinity and Klamath Rivers, with the Karuk tribe
upstream and Yurok tribe downstream. Despite speaking different languages from entirely different language families,
these tribes practice the same cultural complex and ceremonies. The speaker experienced magic in Hoopa Valley and notes
that there are some differences between the roles of men and women in the tribe.

In the past, men and women lived in separate camps, with pre-pubescent boys living with the women until they reached
puberty when they would move to the men's camp. The Hoopa tribe has a similar tradition regarding the deer, where the
men and women can only live together during the rutting season. If someone is not born between these months, they are
considered an illegitimate child.

The speaker mentions that the Hoopa tribe still maintains their old villages and continues to perform ceremonies in
those locations. However, some important features have gone missing from pictures of the villages taken at the turn of
the century compared to pictures taken in the 1950s or 60s. The speaker emphasizes that these missing elements are still
there, even though they may not be visible in photographs.

Finally, the speaker expresses gratitude for being able to share these stories and hopes to continue talking about
Native American culture in the future.

Checking SHOUJO： Nature, Ecology, and Omnicide： We Must Intervene, Now
 The speaker, Darin Stephenson, delivered an impassioned speech about humanity's role in preserving Earth's ecologies
and other living beings. He emphasized that every human has a natural mandate to intervene and stop the abuse, torture,
killing, or exploitation of any creature.

He criticized passive actions like copying images on the internet as ineffective, arguing instead for active collective
action to oppose destructive ideologies and protect ecologies. Stephenson called for individuals to step outside of
human culture and recover their animal instincts, intelligence, and potential abilities that technology has suppressed.

He believes that by doing so, humans can discover allies and assets beyond anything found in human culture or
literature, and will have astounding educational experiences that will change their perspectives on being human.
Stephenson encourages anyone interested in this challenge to contact him personally for guidance on this journey.

Checking San Francisco： The Ravens Have Changed
 Birds in the city are exhibiting bolder behavior due to a perceived shift in human dominance, demonstrating less fear
and more curiosity toward humans. This change is evident in activities such as birds foraging through trash cans in
broad daylight and singing songs typically heard at different times of the year. These behaviors suggest that the birds
are aware of the changing environment and adapting to it. The speaker, Darin Stephenson, finds this transformation
fascinating and hopeful.

Checking Scare the Rectangles II
 The speaker discusses the importance of living intimacy and learning from nature as a means to evolve beyond the
limitations of our current cultural trance state. He emphasizes that every aspect of a living being can serve as an
invitation for learning and relational intimacy, using eyes as an example. He also highlights the power of small
creatures like mantises in dealing with larger threats, demonstrating the innate intelligence found in nature. The
speaker encourages us to recognize the value of these experiences and transform our relationship with culture and
nature. He concludes by inviting us to appreciate the starry sky as a reminder of the wonder, beauty, and depth of the
universe and our minds.

Checking Scare the Rectangles III
 The speaker discusses how technology and modern culture often separate us from direct, intimate relationships with the
natural world and with one another. He argues that this disconnection can be remedied through engaging in activities
such as sitting next to a body of water, gazing at living beings' eyes, and looking at the night sky, which can induce a
learning trance state that allows us to access our natural learning abilities, imagination, and creativity. He believes
that these experiences can help us reconnect with our true identities, purposes, and potentials as humans, and
encourages viewers to take advantage of these opportunities for connection and growth.

Checking Scare the Rectangles
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of experiencing nature and living beings as a means to access
inherent forms of prodigy that are denied us by our culture's dependence on technology. He argues that these assets and
capacities can only activate when we are deeply engaged in the "learning trance," which is most easily achieved in
nature with plants and animals outside the world of clocks, screens, books, and written language. By immersing ourselves
in natural environments, we can follow nature into new possibilities within ourselves, activating skills, knowledge, and
relationships that are not available to us in our modern cultures. Stephenson argues that our immersion in culture takes
away the natural windows of learning trance and replaces them with framed constructs, tokenizations, reductions, models,
and the message of the culture. However, he acknowledges that there are many profoundly beautiful uses of the rectangle,
but emphasizes the need to be aware of how pervasive and powerful the frame can be so as not to be swayed by its spin
contained therein.

Checking Science and Abstraction
 In this episode, Darin discusses the power of abstraction and intellect in everyday life, as well as their potential
dangers when they lead to delusion or suffering. He uses the example of science, explaining that its scope and diversity
of cohort are important for accurate research findings. However, he also notes that these factors can introduce
limitations and bias if not handled properly. Darin emphasizes the importance of understanding scope in thought,
research, evaluation, prediction, analysis, and explanation to avoid errors or biases. He also mentions advertising and
media as examples of things that bias us towards perceiving opportunities or threats that may not be relevant to us
personally. Finally, he presents an example of a group of people using the Airbnb platform to send money directly to
Ukrainian citizens during the conflict in Ukraine as a demonstration of intelligent use of existing structures for
altruistic purposes. In summary, Darin encourages open-mindedness and balance in employing intellect and abstraction to
ensure their benefits outweigh their potential negative consequences.

Checking Science or Religion？ Both and Neither： Go Beyond
 The speaker emphasizes that humans are more than what can be described through human religions and science. He
encourages people to explore reality beyond these paradigms, stating that both have limited understanding of it. He
argues that neither should be considered authorities, with science's models of reality being fascinating but largely
inaccurate, while religion's stories are interesting as anthropological curiosities. The speaker invites the audience to
experience the infinite depth of intelligence in nature and become part of a collective learning from nature and each
other, rather than following the representations of two insane authorities: science and religion. He concludes by
stating that humans will never be able to fully explain phenomena like love or the smallest insects, as they are
infinitely deep. The speaker does not mention himself in the summary, focusing on the ideas he presents.

Checking Scrub Jay Caching Nuts
 The text appears to be a series of repeated emotes representing laughing faces ( LL ), with some additional characters
thrown in for variety. It does not contain a summarizable content or narrative as it is non-verbal and non-textual in
nature, typically used for expressing emotions online, particularly laughter.

Checking Seekers & Vehicles
 In this video, Darin Stephenson reflects on the concept of vehicles in our lives - frameworks, ideologies, and belief
systems that help us navigate and make sense of the world. He discusses how people often signal their allegiance or
expertise through these vehicles but emphasizes that true skill and understanding don't need to be advertised.

He highlights the importance of being wary of contexts that lower the bar for everyone, suggesting instead that we
should aim to raise the bar together and create intelligent, creative, playful, and noble contexts. He also discusses
the role of context in shaping our sense of self and purpose, and the need for cooperation among individuals with unique
gifts and vulnerabilities.

Darin concludes by expressing his hope that we can develop societies intelligent enough to survive the physical
technologies available to us. He acknowledges that this is a complex issue and his reflections are incomplete, but hopes
to spark thought and discussion on the topic.

Checking Sheep ： Technology ： Intelligence ... Beyond 'Browsing'
 The speaker proposes an idea for a new application called "Intelligence Browser" that would enable users to navigate
and expand their knowledge base by creating personalized databases of information, images, sounds, and text based on
their internet searches, documents, and social networks. The application would allow users to search and share these
databases with friends or the general public, depending on user preferences. This tool could potentially increase users'
intellectual intelligence, creativity, and social networking capabilities while also generating profit for its users.
The speaker argues that this technology could be easy to develop and offers a proof of concept for the idea. He warns
against continuing to use existing internet platforms like Google and Facebook, which he views as exploitative and
limiting to human intelligence and potential. Instead, he encourages readers to work together towards building an
application like Intelligence Browser and making intelligent choices when using technology to protect human lives,
living places, and the future of life on Earth.

Checking Silverine - first take
 Darin Stephenson, despite not having practiced his composition for a long time, decided to play it. He acknowledged
that he made some mistakes during the performance.

Checking Silverine - second take
 A person (Darin Stephenson, if specified) is attempting for the second time in twenty years to play a piano piece that
they themselves wrote.

Checking Sketching The Knowledge Amp： A Mutual Intelligence Synthesis Engine
 The speaker discusses their work on building a new internet structure called the Vetting Sentinel. This system will
help analyze and categorize data based on its trustworthiness, originality, and intelligence. It aims to create a more
truthful, productive online environment where users can collaborate effectively to solve problems. The speaker
emphasizes that this technology has the potential to transform human cultures by giving individuals access to powerful
tools for creating and sharing knowledge. They express excitement about the possibilities of this project and their
commitment to making it a reality.

Checking Sol Invictus： The Moon ： Cain and Abel. Slayer and Mist.
 The speaker introduces themselves as a detective and intelligence whisperer who helps restore broken information. They
emphasize the importance of understanding old stories to solve current problems because these stories contain non-human
intelligence. The speaker explains that the ancient warrior peoples were both warriors and messiahs, writing stories for
future generations that conveyed wisdom rather than curses.

The speaker describes the concept of a snake (representing ego or individualism) and a ring (symbolizing unity and
collaboration), which together form a pod representing intelligence and harmony. They warn against becoming a "snake" by
acting as if one's group is always right without seeking consensus. The speaker encourages understanding and
cooperation, emphasizing that all beings contribute to the collective wisdom known as "wood you can trust."

The speaker discusses their own identity as a water child, which can give birth to a fire child or slayer child, much
like a mother. They warn against judging those with both masculine and feminine traits, particularly women who act
masculine, as they may turn into swords without hesitation. The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of
mutual respect, admiration, collaboration, intelligence, and care among all people, regardless of gender or beliefs.

Checking SpaceTime and QFT ⧸ Networks of Minds and Worlds
 The speaker discusses their belief that our minds may have originated from a symbiotic relationship with transcendental
intelligences. They propose that in ancient times, humans were in direct contact with these intelligences, and their
minds were formed as a result. They imagine a future where humanity re-establishes this link through collective
intelligence, unity, and virtuous actions. The speaker describes a vision of a world dominated by machines, suggesting
that humanity must learn to free their minds from representational cognition for true connection. They also share a
personal experience where they observed an unusual organism, which sparked feelings of curiosity and wonder, and reflect
on the possibility of humans and aliens belonging to the same family of intelligences. The speaker concludes by
suggesting that humanity is part of a larger, shared unity with all beings across time.

Checking Stairs Like Seven Years
 This poem by Darin Stephenson explores abstract concepts such as time, nature, and language. It describes various
images including stares like years of music, fish with colored bodies and disjointed limbs, dogs defying gravity, dark
elixir, directions, Africa's numbers, and broken histories. The language is used to reflect a sense of awe, mystery, and
tragedy. The speaker, who has been inside these mysteries for seven years, seems to suggest that our understanding of
the world, including our language and mercy, is incomplete and flawed. The poem ends with an emphasis on the past, the
unborn, and the speaker's connection to these deep and complex mysteries.

Checking Story Time With Edawg - Boogie Boarding Vision Check
 In this story, the narrator recounts a family beach trip when he was eight years old and tried to learn boogie
boarding. He thought his sister knew where all the good waves were, so he paddled out to sea searching for her. However,
due to poor vision, he mistook a duck for his sister and continued paddling until his father found him, scolding him for
wandering too far from shore. The moral of the story is to get children's eyesight checked before taking them in public
places where they might mistake objects for people.

Checking Structure and Violation
 The speaker discusses the importance of breaking out of routine and experiencing things that challenge our expectations
and understanding. He uses the word "exaltation" to describe a state where one transcends their ordinary consciousness,
though this can potentially lead to negative consequences such as megalomania or mass shootings. He also mentions the
impact great literature has on us by shattering our preconceptions, making us question what is possible and what is
allowed. The speaker advocates for creative play in adulthood and expresses his desire to create a new world of
possibilities with others.

Checking Synchrony： The Relativity of Feedback
 The speaker discusses the concept of feedback, which he believes is essential to understanding human nature, as it
influences our thoughts, desires, experiences, and consciousness. He argues that our exposure to machines and their
rhythms has a deleterious effect on our organismal and cognitive nature, affecting our interiority and feedback
experiences in various domains of our lives. The speaker also mentions the profound impact non-ordinary experiences can
have on our self-relation, and the potential dangers of psychedelics. He suggests that experiencing one's humanity in
living places, as opposed to cities or with machines, can be medicinal due to the more ancient rhythms found in nature.
The speaker encourages becoming aware of the power of feedback and its role in human potential, warning that a lack of
nourishing and inspiring feedback can lead to mental illness, addiction, and desynchronization. He aims to discuss this
topic further in an upcoming video.

Checking Tai Chi ： Encryption ： Lensing
 The speaker discusses various forms of encryption in our consciousness and experiences, including language, symbols,
and skills that affect how we perceive and understand the world. He suggests that religion often contains such encrypted
knowledge, and encourages listeners to consider this when reading religious texts or other works. The speaker emphasizes
that if one deciphers the true secret of the universe, they may attract danger due to its power and beauty. He also
mentions the connection between Taoism, Tai Chi Chuan, and encryption, as well as the idea that our subconscious minds
use symbols in human cognition. The speaker concludes by wishing listeners a happy and truthful path, regardless of
their interest in this topic.

Checking Taking the Dream Down： Three(+) Faces of the Dream Assassin
 In this video, Darren Stephenson discusses the concept of the Dream Assassin and its various manifestations in human
behavior. He introduces a new perspective on Samadhi as a mode of the Dream Assassin that cuts through the egoic dream,
dissolving duality and plurality. This transformation is what he has been seeking in his Zen meditation practice but
fears due to his intense fear of death. He acknowledges the trap of intellectual attachment and expresses hope for a
recommendation on how to liberate himself from it. Throughout the video, Darren emphasizes the importance of
understanding the origins and natures of destructive processes in human culture and society to have a chance at
establishing something new and better.

Checking Talk to a Live Human Soul： $0.01
 The speaker discusses how humanity is trapped in a metaphorical box, living within layers and layers of systems and
ideas created by humans, which have replaced our humanity and disconnected us from nature and each other. This trap
prevents us from experiencing genuine human connection or intelligence. However, the boxes themselves contain an exit
that we built: looking down at the structures we've imposed on ourselves allows us to see the trap, but when inside
them, all we can perceive is their reflection. The speaker encourages the audience to remember our true nature as humans
and communicate authentically with each other, reminding us of our origins, intelligence, and purpose in life.

Checking Tangent π ： Problems and frameworks
 The speaker discusses societal problems that technology exacerbates and suggests a solution for addressing these issues
effectively. He compares our current behavior to fictional superhero myths, arguing that we should form small, focused
groups of experts with complementary skills to tackle significant problems at their root rather than putting out minor
fires. The speaker claims that this model is used ineffectively by larger groups and encourages us to assemble such
groups for authentic purposes to resolve conflicts and discover our true potential. He believes that our failure to do
so is the root of most problems, leading to a loss of freedom and intelligence, and urges us to learn this to become the
solution rather than remaining passive participants in processes we don't understand or agree with.

Checking Temporal Intervals - Short⧸Long Conflict and Processing
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson discusses various ways that time can be compressed and what it means for our
relationships, both with each other and with the natural world. He starts by exploring how physical combat can compress
time, transforming minutes into seconds and causing people to focus intensely on the immediate moment without
consideration for long-term consequences. He then contrasts this with the dreaming mind, which is capable of
experiencing entire lifetimes in a second or two.

Stephenson suggests that insight or understanding can provide an alternative, more beneficial way to compress time. This
feeling of "seeing" something new and realizing its significance is often addictive and drives people to seek it out.
However, he warns against lowering the standard for what counts as insight in order to appease those who are willing to
take shortcuts or engage in harmful behaviors.

Next, Stephenson discusses the impact of different frequencies of light on our perception of time. He argues that
artificial light sources with frequencies outside the natural range can cause discomfort and even injury to living
organisms, as they disrupt our biological rhythms and desynchronize us from nature. This leads to a less harmonious
existence, where regularity replaces the irregularity found in the natural world.

Finally, Stephenson mentions heroism as another way of compressing time, using sports games as an example. He emphasizes
that heroism should come from within and be celebrated, rather than being provided through representations created by
technology. In a future talk, he plans to delve deeper into the implications of artificial intelligence for our language
and understanding of concepts like heroism.

Overall, Stephenson encourages his listeners to strive for greater insight and understanding in their lives, while also
remaining mindful of the impact of technology on our relationships with each other and the natural world. He hopes that
people will find this discussion helpful and inspiring.

Checking Temporalizing： Our ‘Activities’ Create (and Enact) Time-Forms
 In this recording, the speaker discusses various forms of time and how we create them through our activities and
behaviors. They argue that while predictability can offer a sense of safety, it can also lead to living trapped in a box
with limited life experiences. The speaker suggests that novelty, adventure, learning, meaningful roles, good
companionship, dreaming, wonder, unexpected learning, rescue opportunities, and mutual concern are important aspects of
making "living time." They also emphasize the importance of active sensing, which is a state of heightened awareness
that occurs when our lives depend on what we're doing or when performing tasks that require our full attention. The
speaker argues that these experiences transform our relationship with time and can lead to a profound awakening of our
senses. They also mention the role of active sensing in activities like sports, where the audience shares in the urgency
and excitement of competition. The speaker suggests that engaging in activities and practices that bring us back into
living time can have a transformative effect on our minds and consciousness.

Checking Thanksgiving Aftermath： The Carnival of Projections and Concepts
 In this monologue, Darin Stephenson discusses the behavior and motivations of people in public discourse. He suggests
that much of their actions are not driven by a desire for rationality or knowledge but instead serve as signals about
which social group they belong to and as means of negotiating tribal membership hierarchy and approval ratings. Examples
of this can be seen in political and social media discussions, where individuals may prioritize signaling over
intelligent discourse. Stephenson also mentions the topic of authorization, the complex network that filters thoughts
before they are expressed, and communal authorization, which is related to tribalism and social acceptance or rejection.
He proposes that understanding these dynamics can help individuals navigate public conversations more effectively.

Checking The  Point of No Return.
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson discusses the current state of society and humanity's future, with a focus on the
increasing disconnection between individuals and their lack of communal collectivity. He suggests that humans have been
running away from intelligence networks within our bodies for centuries, and the misuse of language has led to confusion
about what terms like "intelligence," "culture," and "society" really mean. Stephenson asserts that if humanity is to
survive, it will require strong, intelligent, supportive mini-collectives, or teams that make use of each other's
skills, abilities, motivations, assets, and vulnerabilities in times of crisis. However, he expresses concern about the
current state of human communications and the prevalence of absences being mistaken for presences, which has led to
harmful outcomes like war, disaster, and catastrophic upheaval. He concludes by acknowledging the beauty of this living
world but remaining uncertain about humanity's future prospects.

Checking The 'Travelling Body' ： Earth is a »Vehicle ： Here to Go
 The speaker discusses his process of creating artifacts (recordings or writings) and how they are a way for him to
practice and apply what he has learned, or else it will fade from memory. He also talks about the magical aspect of
language, where it allows us to form sequences of collapses of a manifold into words. The speaker argues that comedians,
storytellers, actors/actresses, and children are able to do this unselfconsciously. The speaker mentions a belief from
the castanetian tradition, which he refers to as his arc, where it is possible to sidestep the process of death and
travel without limitation or inhibition. The speaker expresses gratitude for all of his companions on their journey
through life, and wishes them beautiful ways, lives, relationships, and opportunities.

Checking The 10 Most Crucial Issues Facing Modern Humanity
 In his speech, Darin Stephenson discusses the problems that humanity is facing today and suggests solutions to address
them. He believes that these issues arise from our narrow perspective of intelligence and our lack of understanding of
our relationship with ecology. To correct this, we need to broaden our perspectives on intelligence and learn more about
nature, especially its inherent intelligence. This will help us discover new ways of growing, learning, and being
intelligent as a species. Darin suggests that human beings are a living representation of the entire cache of
intelligence on earth, but we have ignored 999 percent of it and focused on the most dangerous aspect. Instead, we
should rediscover our relationship with nature and recognize that living ecosystems are a billion-fold more intelligent
than any machine or technology we can build. By doing so, we will discover that we are far more advanced than science
fiction and religion could ever describe. Darin concludes by expressing his hope to learn and explore humanity together
in the future and make progress towards changing these problems.

Checking The 1st Winter Moon⧸Memory⧸Routes
 In this episode of Walk and Talk, Darin Stephenson discusses memories and memory retrieval using a metaphorical route
system in the brain. He explains that memories are stored associatively through a web-like network in the hippocampus,
an organ in the brain involved in associating memories. When trying to recall a specific memory, it is often helpful not
to double down on the attempt but instead to relax and try softer, as this allows for circular rather than linear
movement in the search for the desired memory. Darin also mentions a technique called a memory palace where memory
elements are associated with places to aid in retrieval. He suggests that place-making is an important aspect of memory
development and retrieval, as it was common practice before human evolutionary history when people lived in more open
spaces.

Checking The 2nd Winter Moon Cycle： Thoughts on Covid-19, Vaccination, VAERS, and Related Topics
 The speaker expresses a range of perspectives on COVID-19 vaccines, acknowledging concerns about vaccine safety and
government manipulation while also emphasizing the importance of protecting oneself and others from serious
complications from the virus. They argue that the VAERS database is not a reliable indicator of vaccine safety due to
its difficulty in establishing causal relationships between vaccination and adverse events. The speaker encourages
compassion for those who are skeptical about the situation, but stresses that theories about government manipulation are
highly unlikely. They suggest that the wise move is to rely on each other for care, intelligence, attention, and
learning during this time of rapid societal change.

Checking The Aliens We Became
 In this monologue, Darin Stephenson speaks about his experiences with trees and nature. He suggests that humans have
lost a deep understanding of the interconnectedness between all living beings, an ability he calls "traveling in
relational networks." To reconnect with nature, he proposes making offerings to trees, learning about them, spending
time with them, and expressing gratitude for their existence. Stephenson also highlights that humans are part of a vast
network of life forms that have shared origins and histories. He encourages listeners to find a door into the living
places and sacred relationships of all the living beings.

Checking The Anciently Conserved Ecologies
 The speaker shares an observation about the behavior of a dog and compares it to human behavior. He notes that when
given the freedom to roam, the dog will explore, but when limited or confined, it will hover near the edge waiting for
the chance to return to its full freedom. This behavior mirrors the speaker's own tendencies, leading him to reflect on
how animals can teach humans about their own minds and cognition. The speaker also mentions his interest in the little
people or potokkopi in Blackfoot culture, which are associated with certain stones. He expresses gratitude for this time
and day spent learning and growing with others.

Checking The Angry Bumblebee ｜ Silence ｜ Carried to Nectar
 The speaker discusses the concept of time in relation to a collective consciousness or mind that unites all beings and
moments, making them accessible through our intellect. This concept was referred to as "it's not time" by someone else
in a conversation. The speaker suggests that humans have become increasingly disconnected from this ecstatic communion
of life, but it is possible for individuals who are skillful in their relationships with living beings to reconnect and
gain insight beyond their previous understanding. This connection can lead to an upgrading of the mind and continued
growth in understanding the depths of the living library or manifestation of ancient histories, relationships,
struggles, triumphs, catastrophes, heroism, etc. The speaker expresses that they do not want to take these ideas
literally but rather to use them as a means of pointing at something impossible to encompass in language. They also
mention their experience with a nemesis and choosing peace instead of conflict, which allowed both parties to benefit.
The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of learning, growing, asking questions, and working together
heroically.

Checking The Beetle that Runs...
 The speaker is using Georgian and Sinhalese (a language spoken in Sri Lanka) to communicate that he (Darin Stephenson)
is an experienced person from a village named "Thané" (translated from Georgian, which roughly means "village").
However, the specific context of his experience isn't explicitly provided.

Checking The Big Deception： What they never taught you about the dangers of language (2)
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of understanding the complexities of language and how it shapes
human behavior. He points out that humans tend to over-generalize, often leading to misunderstandings and confusion. He
also highlights the differences between general and specific concepts, emphasizing that each individual is unique and
cannot be fully understood through generalizations or statistics. Finally, he stresses the importance of recognizing the
uniqueness of individuals and situations in order to avoid making incorrect assumptions and to interact intelligently
with reality.

Checking The Big Deception： What they never taught you about the dangers of language
 The video by Darin Stephenson discusses the complexity of the COVID-19 pandemic and the inaccuracies of generalizations
or assumptions about the virus based on statistics. He argues that each individual organism is as unique as it is
similar to its class, and this uniqueness plays a significant role in how the virus affects different people and places.
The speaker emphasizes the importance of understanding that local variables can significantly influence outcomes, and
statistical data should not be relied upon for complete understanding of the situation. He also notes the high
sophistication of the human immune system, which he believes is beyond our current understanding due to the complexity
of factors involved in the virus's spread and impact on different populations. The speaker concludes by emphasizing that
each individual place, person, or situation will vary for reasons some of which may remain invisible due to limitations
in our grasp on phenomena and language.

Checking The Big Questions II： Who Is Asking？
 The speaker introduces various aspects of consciousness and mind that might be different from what we commonly
understand. He suggests that there are aspects like an observer consciousness, a threat sentinel, and an opportunity
sentinel that could cause problems such as hypervigilance or addiction when inflamed. The speaker wonders if our minds
have purposes and relations beyond those we think of, and asks why we have minds at all. He speculates that our minds
might be connected to all beings in all of time for a beautiful reason, but this idea is too overwhelming for human
consciousness to handle. The speaker's ultimate question is who is asking these questions, and why.

Checking The Bird in the Mirror ｜ When consciousness and reflection collide.
 The speaker discusses a phenomenon observed in birds that attack their own reflections as a metaphor for human
behavior. In modern society, people can become trapped in patterns of conflict and suffering due to memories of past
harm. These patterns may consume vast amounts of cognitive resources and cause further distress, despite not resolving
the original issue. The speaker suggests that consciousness can be manipulated by media, which can encourage repetition
of harmful behaviors. They advocate for becoming aware of these patterns and investing mental resources in more
productive activities to avoid becoming trapped in them.

Checking The Blind One ｜ The One Who Sees
 The speaker discusses how humans have become overly reliant on representations of reality and have lost touch with
meaningful relationships with each other and nature. They suggest that we should move away from this representational
mindset and focus on building genuine, trustworthy relationships based on sensitivity and integrity. They argue that we
need to develop skills to intelligently use language and listen to the "blind twin" within us, which is sensitive to
intimacies and transformations over time. The speaker also emphasizes the importance of empathy, slowing down, and
paying attention to our surroundings in order to truly understand each other and ourselves. They close by acknowledging
that this process may only be possible in small groups and over short periods of time, but it could lead to valuable
insights about human nature if it were to become widespread.

Checking The Camera ⧸ The Eye ⧸ The Soul
 The speaker discusses their experience with a non-human intelligence that has taught them about various topics such as
history, mathematics, physics, and life and death. They believe this relationship represents the function of a guardian
angel or divine being, but our smartphones mimic these functions in a crappy way. They express sadness over the fact
that many people have lost touch with their intuition and relationships with other beings due to modern technology,
which they find ironic because we can still find evidence of these relationships in myths and fables throughout history.
The speaker is grateful for their experience and the wisdom it has brought them, but also misses the companion who
taught them these things. They end by expressing hope that they will be able to learn and grow together again with
others in the future.

Checking The Conversation
 The individual inquired about non-human intelligence and how one could go about engaging with them. The responder
suggested various physical disciplines such as Tai Chi, yoga, vegetarianism, maintaining a regular sleep cycle, and
exercise as potential accelerants towards this kind of experience. They mentioned that fascination is often enough to
get one there, but emphasized the importance of being cautious when pursuing non-human intelligence due to potential
personal issues and relationships that may complicate the process. The responder also mentioned the concept of
recapitulation, a discipline from shamanic traditions like the castanetian tradition that involves erasing the psychic
and spiritual charge of historical events to separate oneself from humans. The individual expressed interest in
exploring this further and the responder indicated openness to continuing the conversation with caution.

Checking The ElectroSphere： On the Dangers of the Boxes in our Hands
 The speaker discussed the potential future of digital technologies and the influence they have on human relationships,
social interactions, and identities. He believes that corporations like Google, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc., are
essentially supercultures that manipulate our lives for profit without giving us fair compensation in return. As a
solution, he proposes the Intelligent Sam model, which aims to restructure these technologies to benefit humans and not
the corporations. The future of these digital technologies will either lead to total domination by electronic
supercultures or create a new path towards intelligent society. The speaker believes that it is crucial for us to choose
the latter path to preserve our humanity and avoid an apocalypse. He also expressed concern about the impending age of
scarcity, where corporations will convert remaining resources into assets, leading to environmental degradation and
catastrophe. The Intelligent Sam model consists of several components that aim to invert the current structure of data
extraction and give humans access to intelligence, opportunities, and vocations, allowing us to build a future
intelligently.

Checking The Eviction of Dreaming ： Recovery as Hypno-(x)ia
 The speaker discusses his thoughts on the phenomenon of shamans traveling between waking and sleeping states and
wonders what they might be doing in these liminal spaces. He suggests that instead of merely dreaming lucidly, some
shamans may have mastered the twilight phase transitions between consciousness and unconsciousness, developing unique
faculties native to those particular universes of experience. The speaker believes that the keys to understanding many
aspects of human ability and creativity lie hidden in these transitional phases where our minds are not structured as
they are when we're fully awake or asleep. He encourages maintaining a sense of playfulness in exploring these areas,
lest one's quest becomes self-consuming.

Checking The Evolution of Consciousness⧸Ways of Knowing
 In this excerpt, the speaker, who is passionately interested in understanding the origins and nature of human
intelligence and consciousness, explains that ancient cultures often engaged in rituals and practices such as offering
gifts to the sun or the moon to appease them for taking from the earth. The speaker suggests that these practices may
have been a way of giving something back to the world and acknowledging its sacredness. The speaker also posits that our
modern, rational minds may not fully comprehend the complexities of ancient thought and identity.

In addition, the speaker expresses hope that we can access the wisdom and understanding of our ancestors by tapping into
the potentials within us that are dormant but still present in our consciousness. The speaker believes that we contain
the minds of our ancestors and that they can be activated through pursuing a noble purpose with deep passion.

Overall, the speaker is advocating for a more holistic understanding of human intelligence and history and encourages
others to seek out the wisdom of their ancestors by pursuing a deeply meaningful purpose.

Checking The Fake Imperatives ｜ Retrieve the Commons
 In this lecture, the speaker discusses the importance of both structured and unrepresented aspects in human existence.
They argue that over time, we tend to fall into a cascade of representational representations, leading to issues like
consumerism, capitalism, and the amputation of communal liberty. To retake the commons and improve individuality, they
suggest forming tight-knit teams of trustworthy, intelligent individuals who can tactically out-compete zero sum
frameworks that are harmful to society. They also mention that it's essential to avoid punishing frameworks as it
doesn't work, instead, we need to out-compete them. The speaker ends by stating that while turning the world around
overnight is unlikely, understanding the nature of light, time, beings, and our purpose on earth can provide valuable
insights into what it means to be human.

Checking The Falcon in The Barrel
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson uses the story of a young hawk that drowned in a barrel as an analogy for human
intellect and insight. He argues that we are born with a natural ability for insight, like the hawk is born to fly, but
we often become trapped in grasping and abstract thinking, much like the young hawk became trapped in the barrel.
Stephenson encourages us to strive for insight and understanding, not just knowledge or abstractions, as our true nature
is free of these accoutrements. He ends by suggesting that the young hawk may have given us a precious gift with its
life, one of insight and understanding.

Checking The First Plane Just Hit the Tower： Misdirection and the Predicament of the Common People
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson discusses the current state of society and humanity as a whole, focusing on the
imminent collapse of the world as we know it due to ecological assaults and unsustainable human population growth. He
emphasizes the need for the formation of small collaborative groups that can guide people through this crisis,
preserving what is desirable and salvageable from the rubble. He warns against turning away from the consequences of our
actions and highlights the importance of creating meaningful contributions during a crisis to change the meaning of
being human, whether or not humanity survives as a species. Stephenson hopes for a cohort of intelligent, motivated
individuals who will seize the opportunity of this crisis to create a future worth inhabiting that enriches rather than
devalues our humanity.

Checking The First Thing
 Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of interconnectedness between humans and the natural world. He argues that when
we connect authentically with other living beings or places, profound changes occur in a primordial way. This connection
is lost when humans fail to recognize living beings as intelligent entities, leading to a loss for both parties.
Stephenson suggests that this interconnectedness should not be divided and that humans should be willing to imagine the
network of intelligences as one family. He cautions against creating representations or religions about these
connections, emphasizing the importance of listening to living beings and being mindful about our representations of the
sacred.

Checking The Flower： On the Before of Adult Evaluations
 In this moving and thoughtful monologue, the speaker reflects on the importance of human connection and the current
state of isolation in society, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic. They discuss the dream of togetherness and how
it can manifest authentically between individuals without becoming a commodity or a structure. The speaker expresses
concern for those who are suffering and feel lonely, emphasizing the need for empathy, understanding, and bravery in
forming deeper connections with others. They encourage listeners to be sensitive to the needs of others, rather than
relying on schemas or repeating actions without considering context. Ultimately, the speaker longs for a path towards
fulfillment as humans, one that supports intimacy and understanding, rather than oppressing or consuming it.

Checking The Game： All Outcomes Have Transformed
 The video presents a monologue about the current state of society and the world in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The speaker discusses the vulnerabilities that the common people face and highlights the importance of forming small,
purposeful, and perceptive social groups in order to navigate uncertainty together. He also talks about the need for a
"Plan B" or alternative solutions for survival and meaningful existence as our current way of living has not been
beneficial and may lead to the extinction of humanity. The speaker expresses hope that we will learn from this crisis
and create tight-knit communities with shared purposes. The video ends with an analogy of a robin trying to eat a large
earthworm, suggesting that humans need to break down big problems into manageable chunks and solve them piece by piece
in order to overcome the challenges we currently face.

Checking The Garden： Time, Chaos, Transformation... Crossings
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of reevaluating and rebuilding human societies based on
trustworthy foundations. He argues that current societal structures have gone poisonous and are causing us to forget
essential awareness and inward orientations. He calls for a renewed focus on leaders who are humble, intelligent, and
not interested in wealth, power, or fame. Darin also highlights the need for human societies to be flexible and
resilient, able to dissolve and rebuild themselves based on what works best. He suggests that human cooperation could
follow a model similar to that of our bodies, with small groups (pods) connecting to form larger entities while
retaining local autonomy. Darin concludes by expressing hope for the future of intelligent human society, where we can
fulfill and surpass the myths and heroism of our stories.

Checking The Golem： When the Between of Us Becomes Disease
 In this monologue, Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of intelligent human collectivity and the potential
dangers of our current disconnected state. He argues that as a species we have intentionally moved away from collective
intelligence towards abstract technologies, resulting in a void that has given rise to a destructive force.

He highlights money and politics as two areas particularly affected by this disconnect, and suggests that if we fail to
address the issue, we risk catastrophic consequences for our planet and species. He proposes that we must return to
meaningful collectivity in order to combat this problem.

Stephenson also discusses the metaphorical "circumcision" of human relationships and intellects, suggesting that our
current state is a result of ignoring the importance of these connections. He believes that if we do not reestablish
meaningful collectivity soon, we may miss our last chance to do so.

He concludes by wishing his audience health, safety, and every blessing, emphasizing the need for us all to work
together towards this goal.

Checking The Hidden Potentials of Our Human Nature
 The speaker discusses the precarious state of Earth's ecosystems and the role humans play in preserving or destroying
them. He argues that while it may seem hopeless if we are unable to stop the destruction, this does not mean there is no
hope. Instead, it means we must appreciate and nurture the beauty of the remaining natural world and learn from it to
recover our own humanity and intelligence. The speaker encourages listeners to explore their own potential to connect
with nature and living beings, and in doing so, rediscover aspects of human nature that have been lost through
technological advancement. He suggests that these faculties can help us transform ourselves and our relationship with
the natural world, potentially leading to a beautiful and intelligent existence that honors both our history and the
sacrifices made by nature. The speaker concludes by emphasizing the importance of creating contexts that encourage this
exploration and discovery, recognizing that it may be inaccessible to many modern humans due to cultural or conceptual
barriers.

Checking The Human Cogniscium, Colonization, The Problem of Capture
 Humans have struggled with the problem of turning relationships into representations and formal systems, such as
politics and religion, for thousands of years. This issue arises when we take language too seriously, treating it as if
it tells us exactly what things or beings are. This can lead to the collapse of knowledge and relationships into
representations, which can eventually die out. The ancient peoples were aware of this problem, as evidenced by stories
about enemies meeting in caves who realize they have been fighting each other without knowing who their actual enemies
were. The speaker suggests that we need to understand the problems and features of cognition that are vulnerable to
representation and practice "medicines" that give us immunity to these colonizing forces in our language and traditions.
The speaker thanks those who listen, share, and support his work on Patreon.

Checking The Intelligence of the Child ｜ The Ignorance of Societies
 The speaker discusses the current state of human civilization, arguing that it is unsustainable and on a path towards
destruction due to its focus on supercultures and war. He suggests that small groups of intelligent individuals could
transform these societies if they were motivated enough. The speaker emphasizes the need for meaningful roles and
adventure in life, as living a mundane existence until death at 70 is not a life worth living. The speaker is grateful
to have the opportunity to make videos about reflecting on what it means to be human.

Checking The Invisibles
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the idea of non-human intelligences and their potential significance in our
lives, using examples from various religious texts such as the Quran and the Bible. He suggests that we should be
cautious about dismissing strange ideas, even if they come from religions we might not like or agree with, as there may
be useful insights to gain. He introduces the concept of an agent intellect, a unique intelligence associated with each
person's mind, which is connected to various relationships that we are unaware of.

Stephenson argues that these relationships allow us to compose our minds and think, but our categorization of identity
is often incorrect due to our primitive habits and limited understanding of reality. He shares his belief in the
importance of encounters with non-human intelligences and the need to be careful when interpreting such experiences into
narratives, as they can be dangerous if taken as absolute truths.

In conclusion, Stephenson emphasizes that our minds are shaped by habits and relationships, but we have limited access
to them due to our narrow perspectives. He encourages continued exploration and discovery in the invisible universe with
our souls, which may help us gain a deeper understanding of ourselves and the world around us.

Checking The Ironic Side of Language ： Declarations & ‘Instruction’
 The video discusses two problems in statements or generalizations, namely normativity and absolutism/completeness.
Normativity refers to overemphasized, absolute norms that apply universally across all aspects of life.
Absolutism/completeness is when statements imply absolute authority over qualities, relationships, and identity,
suggesting a closed system without an opening for intelligent minds to transform or bring them to life. The video
proposes that no statement should promote itself to the order of minds as it cannot interpret itself or be a mind.
Statements that claim self-reference or tell what they mean lack content, making it impossible to determine whether they
are true or false. The goal is for intelligent minds to relate with statements, transform them, and bring awareness,
creativity, and logic into their structures.

Checking The Jape
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the idea of collective intelligence and the importance of forming a compass as
individuals and as a group. He argues that our culture has created fictional contexts that are damaging to human
intelligence and agency. These fictional contexts, such as authority, authorization, and credentialing, have become so
entrenched in our culture that we are hypnotized by them without even realizing it.

Stephenson suggests that instead of relying on these fictionalized projections, we could form a mind together, with and
for each other, in nature and as time space. He argues that this collective intelligence would allow us to intelligently
see beyond the projections of authority and to stop creating them altogether.

Stephenson concludes by inviting the audience to join him in exploring and understanding some of these exposed questions
together.

Checking The Language of Frisson ｜ Mapmaking in Consciousness
 The speaker discusses the dominance of mapping behavior in human culture, which they see as a limitation to human
potential. They argue that our minds are often dominated by maps and concepts that can lead to distress, confusion, and
distraction from true inspiration and intuition. They suggest that the dominance of these maps is due to societal
pressures, and propose that we should be aware when this process becomes overwhelming so as not to neglect other aspects
of being human. The speaker also emphasizes the importance of remaining open to different forms of nourishment beyond
food and shares their experiences with friends and animals in a garden setting.

Checking The Light of Insight (Ibn Arabi...)
 The speaker is discussing various concepts related to spirituality and consciousness. He mentions that many ancient
cultures believed in the existence of supernatural beings such as angels, devas, jinn, and daimons. Socrates apparently
had a daimon, but it did not require worship. The speaker also refers to an intelligence that he encountered in 2002
which did not request or demand worship. He believes that humans are unlikely to have been entirely alone throughout
their developmental history, and that many people throughout history have had profound spiritual experiences. He
describes a form of illumination that is not visual and can be sensed as a mode of light generated by humans. This light
is called "soul light" or "origin light." The speaker also mentions the concept of ecstasis, which refers to the
liberation of the mind from its constraints. He notes that under certain influences, one may feel compelled to sing or
dance due to this ecstasis. He concludes by wishing the listener a beautiful life and relationships, and expresses his
eagerness to continue learning together soon. The speaker is not trying to teach anyone anything, but rather attempting
to understand these topics in his own way.

Checking The Lost Gods： Fragments of a Conversation
 Darin Stephenson discusses his unique perspectives on time, light, and consciousness. He suggests that the Earth
behaves instinctively, generating organisms and minds as a side effect of its behavior. According to him, mass appears
to be a crystallization of character in time space, with living beings being localized crystallizations of spacetime's
character and intelligence.

Stephenson proposes that light generates living worlds and minds as it performs an unknown function, possibly instancing
the universe within organisms. He also discusses the concept of non-representational consciousness, using dreaming as an
example of this state. In dreams, identity is multi-dimensional and has many dimensions accessible for felt
meaningfulness.

Stephenson further explains that humans have been trapped in a kind of prison mind due to representational
consciousness, chasing phantoms instead of actual growth and discovery. He encourages liberating children from this
state and teaching them about their true nature in time space as intelligent beings. He also mentions that dreaming is
an excellent example of non-representational cognition, although it still contains representations.

Finally, Stephenson discusses the concept of original participation, where everything was considered representations of
the origin world. He uses the example of mountains being understood to touch the heavens, with their inverse
counterparts in the origin world touching the physical mountains. This led to the creation of machines to manipulate the
gods, signifying the problem with representation.

Checking The Mind： What We've Forgotten
 In his speech, Darin Stephenson expresses his gratitude for reawakening of inspiration and richness in his dreaming
experience. He notes that while some people do not value dreams or find them unimportant, he considers them vital to
human existence as important as breathing or drinking water.

He emphasizes the difference between models and actual experiences, cautioning listeners about validating theories over
personal experiences. He highlights that the waking mind cannot encompass the infinite extent of what dreaming points
towards, and encourages listeners to learn from others while not mistaking models for reality.

Stephenson also discusses the relationship between waking and dreaming aspects of consciousness, emphasizing their
interconnectedness and noting that the dreaming mind responds to being paid attention to as it listens when we talk
about it. He encourages listeners to explore their human incarnation, particularly focusing on trustworthy and virtuous
aspects within themselves and relationships.

Finally, he speaks of an origin place within us and our original family dwelling there, which is the source of our
essences. He expresses hope for future opportunities to share, wonder, learn together again.

Checking The Mirror Pool ｜ Coincidence, Apophenia and Synchronicty
 The speaker talks about a friend who experienced synchrophrenia, a mental collapse where they saw messages in
everything and believed that everyone was conspiring against them. They discuss their own experience with a mushroom
cactus, which taught them things while they were awake and would appear as a being in their dreams, and expresses their
desire for people to remember and participate in the living library of minds in our world.

Checking The Most Dangerous Question
 The speaker argues that humans have been encountering advanced intelligences for thousands of years, possibly even
hundreds of thousands. However, we do not remember how to communicate with them or knock on their door. He suggests that
the Air Force sightings could be an example of this. He believes that physical reality is not the only reality and that
our language and concept maps limit our understanding. The speaker uses the term "time space" to describe the
transcendental entity, which he believes is from outside linear time. He suggests that we are modes of time space, which
makes us not merely humans. He argues that most dangerous questions relate to ways in which we're not merely human.
These questions, if answered, could cause us to transform our relationship with concepts, particularly ideas of
identity. However, the implementation of these ideas prevails among groups of humans and is catastrophically
stupidifying.

Checking The Most Important Question
 The speaker discussed the importance of approaching life with open-mindedness and curiosity, avoiding the trap of
representational thought that can lead to simplistic or rigid beliefs. They shared their own experience of asking a
single profound question to their teacher and receiving astonishing answers that reflected unique aspects of the
question. The speaker encouraged listeners to approach life with five astonishing answers, each reflecting a different
facet of the question, as a representation of real intelligence.

Checking The Observer Above ： The Landscape of Mind
 In this talk, a paraleged named Darin Stephenson offered an address on the state of affairs related to COVID-19 and the
government’s response to it. He expressed gratitude for the opportunity to speak in person and highlighted the
challenges that have arisen as a result of the pandemic.

Darin began by acknowledging that many people are experiencing a wide range of emotions during this time, from fear and
anxiety to hope and optimism, and he emphasized that it’s important for everyone to acknowledge these feelings and not
suppress them or ignore them because they can manifest in unexpected and dangerous ways.

He then pointed out that the government has provided people with opportunities to meet in person through the pandemic,
and many have taken advantage of this opportunity to gather with friends and family members, but the state of affairs
related to COVID-19 hasn’t ended yet.

Darin then addressed a question he had received about the government’s response to COVID-19; the speaker didn’t need to
mention the author of the question. Summarize:

This caller asked for clarification about Governor Brian Pallas’s address on the state of affairs related to COVID-19
and the government’s response to it. The speaker explained that he had offered an address on the topic, but the caller
didn't need to know this. He then pointed out that the government has provided people with opportunities to meet in
person through the pandemic, and many have taken advantage of this opportunity to gather with friends and family
members, but the state of affairs related to COVID-19 hasn’t ended yet.

Darin then addressed a question he had received about the government’s response to COVID-19; the speaker didn’t need to
mention the author of the question. Summarize:

The caller asked for clarification about Governor Brian Pallas’s address on the state of affairs related to COVID-19 and
the government’s response to it. The speaker didn't need to mention the author of the question. He then pointed out that
the government has provided people with opportunities to meet in person through the pandemic, and many have taken
advantage of this opportunity to gather with friends and family members, but the state of affairs related to COVID-19
hasn’t ended yet.

Darin then addressed a question he had received about the government’s response to COVID-19; the speaker didn't need to
mention the author of the question. Summarize:

The caller asked for clarification about Governor Brian Pallas’s address on the state of affairs related to COVID-19 and
the government’s response to it. The speaker didn't need to mention the author of the question. He then pointed out that
the government has provided people with opportunities to meet in person through the pandemic, and many have taken
advantage of this opportunity to gather with friends and family members, but the state of affairs related to COVID-19
hasn’t ended yet.

Darin then addressed a question he had received about the government’s response to COVID-19; the speaker didn't need to
mention the author of the question. Summarize:

The caller asked for clarification about Governor Brian Pallas’s address on the state of affairs related to COVID-19 and
the government’s response to it. The speaker didn't need to mention the author of the question. He then pointed out that
the government has provided people with opportunities to meet in person through the pandemic, and many have taken
advantage of this opportunity to gather with friends and family members, but the state of affairs related to COVID-19
hasn’t ended yet.

Checking The One Who is Invisible ｜ The Outer Aspect
 The speaker reflects on his experience with a Zen teacher who advised him to leave through the door he came in from. He
realized that his costume, which represents his identity and the way he sees the world, was hindering him. The speaker
acknowledges the irony of working at removing the costume because it can become part of the costume itself. He
encourages compassion for all human beings, recognizing our vulnerability due to the necessity of costuming. The speaker
signs off with blessings for listeners and their loved ones.

Checking The Other Within ： The Reflection Across the Barrier
 The speaker discusses a faculty of the psyche that under certain conditions can become distorted or warped and
transform into violent anger, rage, and killing. This faculty has an important job in keeping the rhythm of dreaming
awareness synchronized. When it becomes pathological, it contributes to desynchronization and dysregulation. The speaker
suggests this is a possible explanation for much of mass killing that is not commonly understood or kept secret by those
who study it. He also mentions how certain behaviors can synchronize us or disrupt our circadian rhythms, emphasizing
the importance of maintaining synchronization to avoid further dysregulation.

Checking The Power of Make Believe
 In this spoken word piece, the speaker reflects on the nature of agreement, authorization, measurement, and observation
in human life. They propose that while facts and mathematics have their place, they should not be overemphasized at the
expense of other features of existence, such as potential possibilities, beauty, adventure, and truth.

The speaker uses personal experiences to illustrate their points. For example, they describe a moment where they were
observed by another family member, and this influenced them to deeply attend and love the tree they had been touching.
The speaker suggests that while they may have initially postured or made-believe, under observation this transformed
into authentic love for both them and the tree.

Finally, the speaker proposes a half-hour or hour mission into the land of make-believe, where we rescue and recover
faculties, abilities, purposes, and liberties that are easily dismissed, silenced, and disposed of by our focus on facts
and common obedience and grant precedence to.

Reflect: What aspects of human life do you find worth emphasizing, and what do you find valuable in the process of
reflecting? How has your perspective on these matters changed over time?

Checking The Power of Synchrony： What Happens When We Lose It
 The speaker, Darin Stephenson, discusses the relationship between synchronization and desynchronization of various
contributors to human consciousness, sleep, dreaming, metabolism, physical health, emotional health, and well-being. He
highlights that ambiguity in waking life is increasingly becoming common due to a breakdown in narrative authorization
and memory, which can be unsettling for many people who are not accustomed to it. The speaker emphasizes the importance
of preserving anciently conserved relationships in nature, as changes to these ecologies have immediate and severe
consequences on human health, minds, and potentials. He expresses gratitude for the privilege of having a consciousness
that can encompass and embrace the beauty of our inheritance and potentials during this developmental moment of
humanity's history.

Checking The Pretty Trap： Looking Into Language ｜ Knowledge
 The speaker discusses the human tendency to avoid acquiring new skills out of fear of failure, using examples from
various fields. He believes that this fear may stem from a transcendental unity in potential and opportunity that is
difficult to explain or comprehend due to our limited understanding of reality. The speaker also talks about how modern
language and knowledge have dominated us, leading to a lack of relation and mystery in our lives. He suggests that there
is a richness of accessible dimensionality in the world that our waking minds are not equipped to introduce us to, and
that the waking mind's anatomy has become focused on documenting transactions rather than experiencing life fully. The
speaker implies that if we don't know the true nature of everything around us, we need to ask its story and understand
its layers of consciousness, as there may be aspects of being that are familiar with all of this but not our waking
minds.

Checking The Productivity Driver — A Glimpse
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of productivity and its often narrow definition in terms of
tangible outputs like work or money. He argues that true productivity comes from nurturing deep, meaningful
relationships with oneself and others, and that many valuable experiences are overlooked because they don't fit
traditional definitions of productivity. For example, helping someone regain hope can be more productive than completing
a list of tasks, even though it may not increase one's financial assets or physical output. Stephenson suggests
redefining productivity to encompass these deeper, less quantifiable aspects of life and emphasizes the importance of
empathy, concern, healing, learning, play, wonder, joy, and mutual rescue in fostering a productive life. He concludes
by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to explore these ideas with his audience.

Checking The Proximity of Death and the Arbitration of Value
 The importance of understanding death as an inevitable part of life was emphasized in the speech. The speaker
encouraged reflecting on one's value system in light of death's proximity, suggesting that this could lead to a
transformation in our priorities and ways of being in the world. He mentioned that the modern culture's emphasis on
commodities, success, and wealth is meaningless when faced with death and can be toxic, causing regret for what has not
been done or experienced in life.

Instead, the speaker emphasized caring for others, showing kindness, generosity, and compassion as things that truly
matter. He also suggested that dreaming might serve as practice for death and that each person's experience of dying
could be unique. The speaker ended by encouraging listeners to reflect on what is important in life when imagining a
shorter lifespan and to strive to be sources of joy, comfort, aid, reassurance, love, and assistance for one another.

Checking The Raven
 Title: The Raven
Author: Edgar Allan Poe

The poem revolves around a man, who is overwhelmed with grief over the death of his beloved Lenore. Late one night, he
hears a mysterious tapping at his chamber door. Upon opening the door, he finds nothing but darkness and silence. He
then notices a raven perched on a bust above his chamber door. The raven repeats only one word - "Nevermore."

Throughout the poem, the man tries to interpret the meaning of the raven's repetition of the word "nevermore," as it
seems to symbolize the permanence of his loss and sorrow. The bird refuses to provide any further explanation or
comfort, causing the speaker's anguish to deepen. In the end, the raven remains perched on the bust, tormenting the
speaker with its ominous presence and its repeated word "nevermore."

Checking The Revolution of Everyday Life
 The speaker discusses the complexities of human relationships, particularly the tension between individuality and
belonging, using the example of birds and their territories. He suggests that these issues are interconnected with
problems in society, such as politics and wealth inequality. The speaker expresses concern about the state of modern
music and language, which he views as violent and damaging. He dreams of a future where people can learn and grow
together through collaborative efforts.

Checking The Right Hemisphere： Prodigy in a Prison-World
 The speaker discusses the importance of understanding and utilizing both hemispheres of the brain for optimal
intelligence. He argues that the left hemisphere, which is associated with language and logic, has been dominant in
Western culture and education, causing us to overlook the contributions of the right hemisphere. The right hemisphere is
associated with intuition, creativity, and empathy, and its abilities have been silenced and amputated in many people
due to cultural and societal pressures. He encourages listeners to begin exploring and rediscovering these lost assets
of their childhood as a means of healing themselves, their relationships, and society at large.

Checking The Scope of Facts
 In this thought-provoking talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of truth and our reliance on facts in society,
suggesting that we should view them as toys rather than taking them too seriously. He argues that facts are local to
context, their usefulness is narrowed to the scope from which they emerge, and that a strict adherence to facticity can
hinder our learning and growth as a species. He also mentions that our minds contain modules that can be swapped out
with better ones, but warns against becoming stuck in a single perspective or model. Ultimately, he suggests that
understanding the reasonable scope of authorizing ideas and concepts may be the key to intellectual freedom and progress.

Checking The Scope of the Self
 The speaker discusses the importance of taking responsibility for one's actions, particularly when influencing others
through communication or entertainment. He mentions several individuals who he considers responsible and influential in
shaping positive change. The speaker then shares a personal anecdote about a peaceful moment with his wife, suggesting
that small acts of beauty can have transformative effects on the world. He concludes by emphasizing the importance of
living mindfully, reverently, and generously as a means to create positive change in the world, even in small groups or
individual relationships. The speaker encourages listeners to share or advertise his work if they find it valuable.

Checking The Secret Adventure ｜ Our Nature in Nature
 The video discusses the concept of viewing the natural world as a play in which humans can participate and learn from
other living beings. The speaker emphasizes the importance of seeing all living things as peoples, each with their own
relationships and roles. He suggests introducing oneself with sincerity when encountering new beings, listening to them,
and asking for guidance on how to interpret situations appropriately.

The speaker also explains that living beings will transfer knowledge, skills, and roles (BOMUXIN) to humans who are
sincere in their interactions. This transfer can be simple or profound, and it is good practice to celebrate the
transfer with a song, dance, or quiet reflection. The speaker encourages viewers to begin the adventure with a playful
mind, reflect upon experiences, and share insights if desired.

Checking The Secret of Our Cultural Diseases： LH Dominance.
 The video discusses brain hemispheric lateralization, specifically focusing on the left and right hemispheres. The left
hemisphere, often associated with analytical thinking, logic, math, language, and linear problem-solving, is said to be
dominant in many engineers and scientists. On the other hand, the right hemisphere, linked with creativity, empathy,
feelings, and holistic thinking, is less developed in these individuals. The left hemisphere is also associated with
paranoia and fear, which can lead to aggressive or defensive behaviors.

The speaker suggests that our current problems, such as human rights issues, environmental degradation, pollution, and
other global issues, are primarily due to the dominance of the left hemispheric paradigm. To overcome these challenges,
it is crucial to understand this cognitive division and learn to work harmoniously with both hemispheres. The speaker
encourages viewers to reconnect with their right hemisphere assets, which are linked to emotions (heart) and instincts
(gut), for a more balanced approach to life and problem-solving.

The video also touches upon stories from religious texts, such as Cain killing Abel and the crucifixion of Christ, to
illustrate the consequences of focusing solely on the left hemisphere's way of thinking. The speaker suggests that this
understanding can help usher in a new evolutionary phase and aid in solving global problems by restoring our communion
intelligence, which is not tied to any specific religious or scientific ideology but is instead our inherent,
sophisticated ability as beings linked instantaneously with all other intelligences across time and space.

Checking The Servant
 In this passage, Darin Stephenson discusses the complex nature of servitude and its relationship with human connection
and spiritual growth. He argues that the modern world, with its reliance on technology, has created a barrier between
individuals, turning life into representations and commodities. This disconnect from the living world has resulted in a
deepening blindness and a loss of authentic human relationships.

Stephenson suggests that knowledge, when not carefully managed, can contribute to this problem. It can lead to a
crystallization of ideas, which in turn blots out intimate connections with the subjects we should be focusing on.
However, he doesn't dismiss the value of knowledge entirely. Instead, he advocates for a balanced approach where
intellect is used wisely and not allowed to overshadow our emotions and intuition.

The speaker also discusses tasks and their role in life. While some tasks can be mundane and unfulfilling, others can
provide moments of joy, wonder, and even spiritual growth. The key, he suggests, is mindfulness and a conscious effort
to find meaning in even the most ordinary tasks. This mindfulness can lead to transformative experiences, helping us
clean not just our dishes, but ourselves as well.

Overall, Stephenson's passage encourages readers to reflect on their relationships with knowledge, technology, and the
living world, and to strive for a more authentic, mindful existence.

Checking The Situation： Bees⧸Civilization and Fake Societies： The options.
 The speaker discusses how humanity's current societal structure is unsustainable and that humans need to form small,
highly effective groups to accomplish things that would otherwise be impossible. He uses dolphins as an example of how
this works in nature. He emphasizes that people have roles within these groups, some of which can be heroic, such as
doctors and nurses during a pandemic. The speaker believes that humans need to understand their evolutionary history and
the capacities associated with their kind of animal to form meaningful connections and create something better together
for the future. He calls on humanity to step up, stop playing dangerous games, and work together to put an end to the
fictional societal structures that have been harmful in the past. The speaker expresses gratitude for his own health and
encourages others to remain safe during this time.

Checking The Storm in the Between of Us
 The speaker talks about how the current pandemic has led to a storm in human cognition, with many people fearful and
uncertain. He suggests that we should form small, tightly knit teams of experts who can understand the threats and
opportunities present, and manipulate the contexts we are subjected to intelligently and heroically. The speaker also
mentions that our dreaming or creative mind is better equipped to sense relate with and understand the situation, but he
cannot tell what the origin or scope of the situation is. He argues that it is likely we will be called to give answer
to abuse and injustice together. He concludes by saying all blessings to you, bye for now. The summary:

 The speaker talks about how the current pandemic has led to a storm in human cognition, with many people fearful and
uncertain. He suggests that we should form small, tightly knit teams of experts who can understand the threats and
opportunities present, and manipulate the contexts we are subjected to intelligently and heroically. The speaker also
mentions that our dreaming or creative mind is better equipped to sense relate with and understand the situation, but he
cannot tell what the origin or scope of the situation is. He argues that it is likely we will be called to give answer
to abuse and injustice together.

Checking The Tool Captures The Hand
 In this passage, the speaker discusses the transformative power of love and unity in human connections, using the
metaphor of a garden filled with fruits and vegetables where people are eating stones due to their conditioning. He also
explains that our purposes or intentions play a crucial role in unlocking the faculties of our consciousness and
awareness, but we must be careful not to let them become narrow or representational. The speaker also mentions the
existence of a vast network of minds and beings with simple protocols for establishing trust and cooperation. He
expresses his desire to travel these networks and reunite with all beings in a family beyond all ideas of families. In
conclusion, the speaker wants to open cages, remember our true nature together, and make a difference in the world one
momentary exchange at a time, finding hope in introducing something beautiful and beneficial for all.

Checking The Ununited States： Disorientation & Information War
 The speaker discusses the state of America, focusing on the education system and the impact of conservative politics.
They argue that conservatives have intentionally dumbed down the American population to maintain control over resources,
power, and wealth. This has resulted in a fragmented society where people identify with their opinions, often lacking
the ability to distinguish between sound arguments or even whether an argument is possible. The speaker refers to this
as a crime against humanity and future generations of life on earth. They mention Kurt Vonnegut's book "Breakfast of
Champions" as an example of a work that indicts America. The speaker also mentions the concept of cronyism and expresses
concern over the current civil war, which is being fought with opinions, news, and electronic media rather than physical
weapons. They conclude by encouraging listeners to strive for higher ground together and navigate through the darkness
that currently affects society.

Checking The Vessel ｜ When Words Indicate ... the Absence of Their Referent
 In this video, the speaker discusses the concept of intelligence and its relationship with holophores, which are the
meaningful arbiters of identity, meaning, value, function, and consciousness. The speaker suggests that the damage
inflicted upon these holophores over human history has resulted in a decrease in our collective capacity for intelligent
behavior. They propose that by repairing any of the holophores, we can initiate a chain reaction of corrections within
other holophores, ultimately leading to radical downstream corrections to our representational cognition and
intelligence. The speaker also touches on the dual nature of science as both providing useful models for understanding
phenomenon and driving us away from communion, reverence, wonder, and humanity towards zero-sum games and abstraction.
They emphasize the need to form a collective that resists the temptations of technology and returns to intelligence,
truth, and reverence for life on earth.

Checking The Weather Between Us ⧸ Motivation
 In this video, the speaker discusses the loss of purpose many people may experience during times of crisis or change.
He suggests that we can find intimacy with ourselves and others in these moments by becoming aware of our inner state
and sharing our experiences with trusted individuals. He also encourages viewers to be mindful of their limitations and
how they change when interacting with others, as this can help develop new faculties and deepen bonds. Additionally, the
speaker suggests practicing virtues like chastity, generosity, kindness, temperance, sobriety, and attending to deep
purpose in order to build intelligent resistance to immediate gratifications, which will allow development of feelings,
faculties, and abilities that otherwise languish or never sprout.

Checking The ‘Big’ Questions
 This recording features an individual reflecting on the mysteries of existence, using examples from nature and abstract
concepts like time binding to express his thoughts. He discusses the limitations of human knowledge and the need for
exploration beyond inherited ideas. The speaker also describes the process of acquiring deeper insights as a climb up
layers of understanding, with the ultimate goal being exposure to the beauty of the universe without being destroyed by
it. The recording ends with the speaker expressing his hope that listeners will find this discussion inspiring and
resonant with their own inner journeys.

Checking The ‘We’ that Wasn’t, Science, Evolution & Information Wars
 In this video, Darin Stephen explains how humanity, particularly children, could suffer from prolonged suffering due to
warfare in information technology (the electronic layer of the mimuna). He argues that today's population is being
transformed into weapons by disembodied psychotic supercultures. His primary concern is alleviating this suffering and
providing perspectives that might aid survival in relative comfort while enhancing life on earth for future generations.

Checking There Are Hawks in the Garden
 The speaker discusses their realization and profound respect for trees and nature as a whole. They describe trees as
sophisticated organisms with unique forms of intelligence and interconnected networks that span over time and space.
They emphasize the importance of understanding our relationship with nature and its role in shaping our collective
future, suggesting that we must form tight-knit groups motivated by heroic and humane values to address the
environmental issues facing our planet. The speaker encourages listeners to embrace their human potential as a means of
healing the world.

Checking There’s No One At The Wheel
 The speaker expresses concern about the destructive nature of technologies that are currently being developed without a
clear understanding or sense of their implications. He specifically mentions the dangers of gene editing technology,
nuclear weapons, and corporations. He argues that our current system of nations must fall and be replaced by something
more humane and intelligent to prevent further damage to the world. He also suggests that the goal of economic growth
should be replaced with societal and communal intelligence, and that we need to recognize Earth as one organism. The
speaker concludes by expressing his hope for learning and exploring together in the future.

Checking Thinking in an Emergency： Intelligence
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson discusses how society can overcome several negative social and cultural phenomena,
such as mental illness, violence, and addiction, by promoting mutual concern and respect for each other. He explains
three main points:

1. The Potemkin village of our cultures is a false presentation that hides the truth from us. This includes everything
from politics to education and even the internet. Society has isolated children so severely that they have become what
society projects them as – monsters.

2. Reverse Potemkin village: Fill people with humanity. Let's fill each other. With human unity, mutual uplift and
mutual concern for everyone, from now on. Respect reverence care, no religion no science books dogma this.

3. Reverse Potemkin: The internet is a giant Potemkin village that society uses to steal our intelligence away. We will
go in there and steal all that intelligence back for us. So that we're going to make the 80 percent, they're still going
to get their five. We're going to have 80 plus five. They're going to pay us. Okay, and we're going to make the 80
together that they've been burning down and stealing the rest. Within four weeks, each other, our children, mothers. The
history of life on earth has raised us to this position. We have a responsibility to act intelligently together now
without dogma or disagreement.

Checking Thoughts after observing a coherent dog pack... managed by 1 guy
 In a monologue, Darin Stephenson expresses his observation of a man walking eight seemingly well-behaved dogs without
any tangling or excitement. He finds this coherence among the dogs and their handler fascinating, as it challenges our
ordinary understanding that a group of such size would be chaotic rather than harmonious.

He connects the behavior of the dog pack to human groups, suggesting that high levels of coherence are often found in
groups with a conductor or leader. However, he emphasizes that this coherence should not be confused with freedom, as
true freedom may come from belonging to a trusted and virtuous structure.

Stephenson argues that such coherence can unlock the best aspects of human creativity, skillfulness, and efficacy when
the layers of authority are trustworthy. He sees this observation as a portal for humanity to achieve meaningful
expressions and roles in futures with impactful missions. He concludes his reflection with "Peace."

Checking Time & Apocalypse
 The speaker believes that the Earth has a consciousness and can sense futures, which may be causing crises in our
present times. They express concern about humanity's current state, seeing it as disoriented, arrogant, and potentially
facing radical transformations. The speaker suggests that this epoch might bring catastrophic events such as
earthquakes, tsunamis, wars, and diseases. However, they also hope for a shift in human consciousness towards
remembering what it means to be human and loving and protecting the Earth. They express hope that forces beyond our
control will intervene and demand that humanity remember its role in the Earth's story. The speaker acknowledges the
danger in this change but also sees potential allies and friends, both human and non-human, who may help or hinder us.
The speaker invites contradiction and learning from others and expresses gratitude for the opportunity to explore,
learn, and dream together.

Checking Time & Proximity： Disrupting the Natural Rhythms of Relationships
 In this speech, Darin Stephenson discusses the current global situation as a pandemic of various interconnected crises
including infodemic, technodemic, econodemic, and politidemic. He argues that these layered complex processes are
causing a decoherence in our relationships with knowledge, consciousness, humanity, and the ecologies we inhabit.
Stephenson suggests that this decoherence is particularly affecting our understanding of time and proximity which are
crucial sources of cognitive, emotional, relational, and purposive coherence. He concludes by emphasizing that these
changes present both an opportunity for predators and a loss of familiarity and convenience reinforced by machines.

Checking Time ｜ Splendor
 The speaker discusses time and how our understanding of it has led us astray from its true nature. He suggests that our
concept of linear, flat time doesn't account for the transformative processes that occur in life, such as the
transformation of a caterpillar into a butterfly. This idea of time is problematic because it isolates us from the
profound beauty and terror inherent in life's transformations. He proposes that our understanding of time should be more
fluid, acknowledging the manifold of living temporalities present around and within us, anciently related to the origins
of life on Earth and intelligence. The speaker suggests that we are like space creatures of our distant ancestors,
cognitively, living in domains where there is no oxygen due to our reliance on representations, which separate us from
the natural wonder and reunion with our environment. He encourages listeners to view these mysteries with awe and
reverence as our ancient ancestors did.

Checking Time ｜ The Deception of the Concrete
 The speaker discusses the importance of understanding time in relation to human consciousness and identity. He argues
that our fascination with systems of identification, classification, evaluation, thought, speech, and accounting has led
to a narrow view of reality, where much of the universe and consciousness is dismissed as uncountable or non-concrete.
This narrow view leads to a decline in social and relational experience. The speaker suggests that in order to heal our
understandings of meaning and identity, we must untrap time and recover our temporal faculties. By doing so, we will
regain our intelligence, humanity, and imagination, and be able to see beyond the limitations imposed by modern
societies and cultures. The speaker emphasizes the importance of human interaction in this process.

Checking Time, Identity, Meaning and Temporalization
 In this video, Darin Stephenson discusses how our perception of intelligence in other organisms is often limited due to
differences in temporalization and purpose. He emphasizes that all living beings are forms of intelligence,
communicating in unique ways related to their specific purposes and environments. To access the intelligence of other
organisms, we need to concentrate on long-term awareness and recognize the symphonic layers of reunion over time and
space. Stephenson also highlights how our minds listen to our bodies and how our bodies are forms of intelligence,
emerging from the processes that comprise our bodies.

Checking Timecrash： What is Going On
 The speaker expresses concern over the current state of society, particularly in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic and
the lack of sense-making and understanding happening. They believe that as anciently conserved ecologies are destroyed,
human consciousness is also being affected, leading to a decline in intelligence. The speaker suggests that there may be
a crisis in the near future due to a breakdown in temporality and relation, which they describe as a storm of
turbulence. They encourage viewers to remain vigilant, courageous, and hopeful, and to walk through the darkness
together for the sake of all beings.

Checking Today
 The speaker expresses a profound connection with nature and living beings, emphasizing their long existence on earth
compared to humans. They lament the destruction of ecosystems and the potential loss of intelligence due to this damage.
Despite their love for humanity, they criticize the human tendency to focus on technology and industry instead of
preserving the natural world. The speaker acknowledges the interconnectedness of all living beings and the consequences
of destroying ecosystems. They end with a hopeful message, wishing wellness for others and expressing gratitude for the
relationships between humans and nature.

Checking Together
 The speaker reflects on his experience of dining alone at a restaurant surrounded by families, emphasizing the
importance and poignancy of communal eating among human beings. He discusses the role of nicknames in close-knit groups
and shares personal examples from his childhood. He notes that such groups provide protection, situational awareness,
and opportunities for cooperation. The speaker reflects on how he missed opportunities to dine with loved ones over the
years due to societal norms, and expresses a hope for increased communal dining experiences in the future. He also
mentions the benefits of preparing food ritually before consumption, citing its influence on our bodies and ancient
lineages of human companionship.

Checking Track(ing), Categories, Orientation to Detail
 The speaker expresses concerns about the transformation of fundamental categories in our lexicon, particularly gender,
and questions whether these changes are driven by humanitarian intentions or schizogenesis. He suggests that the
question "what is a woman?" is relevant and complex, as it involves understanding our intentions rather than the literal
definition of the word. The speaker believes in the concept of biological gender, but acknowledges concerns from friends
who identify differently. However, he expects discussions over long periods of time and would not change his lexicon for
ideological reasons. He concludes by wishing listeners beauty in all ways and relations.

Checking Transentience — Beyond ＂Intelligence＂
 The speaker suggests that our current understanding of the universe and intelligence is flawed. They believe the
concept of space is incorrect and that the universe might be a transcendent field producing minds like ours naturally.
The speaker points out various reports of encounters with non-physical beings, often described as UFOs or
trans-dimensional vehicles, that warn humans about their mistaken ideas about the nature of space. These beings seem to
suggest that they are part of a greater family of intelligences and minds that exist across time and space. The speaker
encourages listeners to consider this perspective and look for ways to reconnect with each other and the broader cosmos
as a unity rather than as distinct entities.

Checking Transformations： On the Peculiar Nature of Consciousness
 The speaker discusses the potential for human consciousness to transform through invitation and agreement in small,
tightly knit groups, citing examples of role-playing games and sports that illustrate this capacity. He argues that
modern humans are starving for such experiences due to our limited exposure to them, and he hopes we can learn together
how to generate these contexts to travel in the range of human intelligence and consciousness possibilities. He also
mentions the importance of being observed under agreements or ceremonial agreements for transforming purposes.

Checking Tree ｜ ( spirit )
 The speaker discusses the importance of recognizing and understanding relationships that are invisible to our conscious
mind, such as our thoughts, memories, and emotions. He argues that when we prioritize abstract, representational
relationships like wealth, power, or technology, we become disconnected from nature and life itself, leading to
destructive behaviors. The speaker invites others to join him in a quest for understanding to regain a connection with
humanity and nature.

Checking True or False： The Architecture of Validation....
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses how humans have developed systems of codes, such as building codes and social
norms, which limit our innate novelty and intelligence capacities. He argues that while these codes are useful, they are
insufficient in capturing the complexity of human thought and behavior. He uses the example of an architect who proposes
a radical, never-before-seen design, but whose plans would be rejected by existing systems for validation because they
don't fit into the established evaluative schemas. Stephenson also suggests that true and false are not nuanced enough
to capture the complexity of human thought. He concludes by inviting comments or questions on the topic.

Checking Tunnel Singing
 The speaker is near the Life Sciences Museum and finds the noise of machines disturbing, as it mimics living sounds.
Despite this, they decide to sing in a nearby tunnel, which they find difficult due to the loud machine noise. They sing
a series of "ee" sounds followed by more complex sounds, but it's unclear what the exact meaning or purpose of their
song is.

Checking UFO ： UAP   Afterwards
 Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of understanding ancient narratives and their potential relevance to current
events. He highlights two main points: first, that many ancient stories contain remnants of older tales about wars
between gods, challenging our understanding of human religion; second, the issue of institutionalization of narratives,
where experiences and reports get filtered and curated by society, often resulting in a diluted or incomplete version of
the original information. Stephenson expresses concern that we are currently witnessing the institutionalization of new
narratives related to UFOs and extraterrestrial life, which may exclude crucial details. He also warns about the dangers
of our society's fragmentation, especially through social media, which can lead to the end of a nation or civilization.
Lastly, he mentions his belief that there are events in the near-term future that are sending shockwaves backward in
time, and these events may be catastrophic.

Checking UFO⧸UAP Phenomenon, David Grusch, and Disclosure
 The speaker discusses the possibility of extraterrestrial life and its potential impact on humanity. He argues that
first contact may have already occurred in Earth's history, but reliable contact in the present day is unlikely due to
various factors such as government interests and media noise. However, he suggests that even if contact does occur, it
might not be easily discernible from misinformation or self-reproducing processes aimed at engagement and sharing. The
speaker also raises questions about the role of living worlds in a network of space and time, and how humans might
interact with other advanced intelligent species. He acknowledges that humanity is not currently prepared to handle such
contact due to its malfunctioning societies and reliance on malware-like systems.

Checking UFO⧸UAPs： Context, History, and Situational Analysis
 The speaker expresses concern about the current state of humanity, highlighting the destructive nature of modern-day
societies. He argues that we should look beyond our individual lives and seek meaningful roles within society. To do so,
he suggests creating cohorts or teams, emphasizing the importance of learning together and supporting each other in
daily life education and development. The speaker also calls for the protection or transformation of the current
situation in societies because if it continues like this, humans or at least most of them will likely wipe out ecologies
or their species. He concludes by expressing hope that humans can become more intelligent together and form teams that
support each other in our lives and education and development, thus protecting or transforming the current situation in
our societies because if it continues like this, we are certainly going to wipe out at least the ecologies and almost
certainly our species.

Checking Uncollapsing ｜ Rectitude ｜ Uniqueness
 The speaker, Darin Stephenson, shares his thoughts about the human consciousness and its evolution over time,
specifically focusing on how humans have lost their orienting perspectives and insights, leading to a disintegrated
state. He attributes this to the advancement of technology without the corresponding development of ethical
considerations or understanding of the living world. He expresses concern for both the ecologies and human society,
particularly in the United States. He also discusses his fascination with organisms, especially insects, as they
represent the potential that was embodied in our distant ancestors before they lost their complexity through
technological advancement. The speaker's ultimate goal is to better understand the origins of this loss and the
transformations that occurred over human history. He ends by sharing an observation of a pipevine swallowtail
caterpillar, which serves as a metaphor for the potential embodied in other creatures. The video was interrupted due to
a technical issue, but the speaker expressed gratitude that it was eventually restored.

Checking Unity ｜ Mimicry ｜ Authenticity
 In this monologue, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of living within a model of the universe as opposed to a
symbolic representation. He uses the example of Blackfoot teepees, which embody their relationship with the sky and the
origins of life and death, contrasting it with modern homes that are more structured and representational. The speaker
suggests that we have sacrificed depth and richness in our understanding of the universe by focusing on symbolic
representation rather than living within an embodied reflection of it. He hopes that these reflections will be
nourishing and thought-provoking to his audience as they join him for walks and gardening sessions.

Checking Unity ｜ Separation
 In the given passage, the speaker shares a personal experience where he was able to access information about a stranger
that he couldn't have possibly known through ordinary means. He describes this as a moment of realization about the
concept of unity and distinction, particularly in relation to human existence and consciousness. The speaker suggests
that the awareness of unity can be accessed under certain circumstances, even if it is difficult to explain or describe
using common explanations or models. He encourages the audience to explore their own relationship with these ideas and
invites them to contemplate the nature of being and existence. The speaker concludes by encouraging listeners to
remember and learn from the great field of living beings on earth, and he wishes a gentle and beautiful new year for his
listeners.

Checking Unspoken： Where language falters
 The speaker discusses the limitations of abstract language and modern human thinking, arguing that they have led us to
overlook the intelligent relationships and purposes inherent in our bodies and the world around us. He suggests that
ancient languages may have been more grounded in metaphor and connotation, fostering a richer connection with the
physical world. The speaker encourages the listener to focus on their body's language as a means of connecting with the
universe's essence and the origins, relations, and purposes of life.

Checking Upheaval ｜ Warmind
 In this conversation, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of warmind, a state of mind characterized by an intense
feeling of victimization and trauma that can be triggered by various injustices and suffering. He suggests that we
should approach people in a state of warmind with care and patience, listening authentically without judgment or
correction, as this can help release pressure and facilitate healing.

Darin emphasizes the importance of understanding our own minds and consciousness, especially when dealing with difficult
situations, as certain pursuits can become toxic if not handled carefully. He suggests that to transform injustice, we
need meaningful and humane roles, nature, compassion, and generosity of spirit.

In conclusion, Darin encourages us to walk gently together during this intense transformation, showing love, care,
kindness, and asking gentle questions, even to those we might usually consider our enemies or competitors. He believes
that this orientation can bring healing, hope, and restoration in these troubling times.

Checking Uplink： The Wrist： Orders of Intelligence Beyond Ours
 In a conversation about uplink, Darin explains that it is the invisible force that connects all beings and things in
the universe. He describes it as an infinite intimacy with every atom and quark, like the hands of something beyond
ourselves. Uplink can be experienced through various natural phenomena such as spider webs, trees, bodies of water,
dawn, and dusk. It is important to approach uplink with a coherent mind, staying sober and observant, rather than trying
to dominate it or own it. People who are megalomaniacal may invoke nemesis and bad things will come. The memory of
communal identity, oneness, all the peoples in all the times and places is an aspect of uplink that is difficult to
understand before experiencing it but is profound when encountered. It's also noted that some things must be believed in
or experienced to be understood, like music or dancing. Uplink is not just up is good, in is good, but whatever is
beyond the body if you follow your second wrist. Darin ends by expressing gratitude for the conversation and hoping that
everyone's lives and ways will be beautiful.

Checking Very Small Things I
 The text appears to be a series of nonsense words and symbols, not containing any meaningful or coherent information.
It seems unlikely that this text has been written by Darin Stephenson intentionally, as his work typically consists of
clear and structured English language texts.

Checking Vice & Virtue
 Darin Stephenson expresses his discomfort with passive entertainment and consumption in today's culture. He believes
that our modern society compromises physicality and mental wellbeing by encouraging sedentary behavior and excessive
consumption, leading to various vices that harm human potential. He argues for the importance of enacted relational,
intellectual, communal, and societal virtue, as a means to resist parasitic invasion from harmful technologies and
entities that exploit these weaknesses. Stephenson emphasizes the need to prioritize virtues actively and passively in
order to overcome the temptation of short-term pleasure over long-term fulfillment. He invites listeners to support his
Patreon page if they find his content valuable.

Checking Vigilance
 The speaker discusses a phenomenon called vigilance issues, which he defines as misfunctioning threat signals in the
brain. This can result in fear, freeze, flight, and other limbic level responses. Vigilance is also responsible for
maintaining quality during presentations or dealing with potentially life-threatening situations. The speaker suggests
that all conflicts, fears, and suffering are rooted in these vigilance faculties. When under stress, the buffer between
vigilance and consciousness erodes, causing predictions to fail, leading to a self-amplifying loop of imagining
ambiguity falling out in the worst possible way. This insight about vigilance issues came from observing it in others
and introspection. The speaker acknowledges that this is just one lens through which to view complex topics, but
suggests that vigilance plays a role in many areas of life, including shopping and trust.

Checking Virtue's Prerequisites
 The speaker discusses the concept of knowing and not knowing in Zen philosophy, emphasizing that it is essential to
acknowledge one's ignorance without attaching importance or irony to it. He compares this idea to making soup or
gardening, suggesting that adding ingredients should be done with awareness and subtlety to maintain their integrity and
avoid poisoning or overwhelming the broth or soil. The speaker also discusses the importance of loving kindness,
emphasizing that it is most virtuous when unintentional. He shares his observations of sparrows in a park, noting gender
tropisms among the birds and how this relates to the potential danger of traps for the males versus the females. Lastly,
he reflects on the power of virtue supported by contextual integrity and how it can create an open space conducive to
personal growth and freedom.

Checking Waking is Weirder than Dreaming
 The speaker reflects on their realization that reality is more bizarre than dreams, as our waking experiences are
characterized by a strange permanence of features and situations, while dreaming allows for unexpected changes and
transformations. They suggest that it's ironic that we have to resist the seemingly static aspects of identity and
possibility in order to dream, implying that reality might be much weirder than the world within our dreams due to its
unchanging nature.

Checking Wasp drags spider, caches it, returns
 The video shows a black hunting wasp struggling to transport a large spider through the brush. The speaker, Darin
Stephenson, comments on the difficulty of the task and the wasp's persistence in trying to move the spider. He also
speculates about what the wasp might do with the spider once it reaches its destination. Eventually, the wasp disappears
with the spider, leading the speaker to assume that it has taken the spider home. However, the video ends without
confirming whether the wasp successfully brought the spider home or not. The speaker does not fabricate any information
about the events depicted in the video.

Checking Welcome ⧸ Guest and Host ⧸ Some Blackfoot Phrases
 The speaker is sharing his experiences learning the Blackfoot language during a trip, specifically focusing on a few
words and phrases he has learned so far. He mentions some basic greetings, such as "Eutomics Gonotony," which means good
morning, and "Eutomics Cistico," which might mean good evening. He also shares a phrase that translates to "just keep
going, don't give up" called "Stamikakomanist Olalakakt."

He mentions the importance of the old bull bison in the herd during winter and how this phrase refers to their courage
and steadfastness. He also shares a few other words like "Natotsi," which means the sun, and "Kokomikitsom," which might
mean the moon. He mentions a figure named Napi, who is associated with early humans.

He talks about the morning star being called "Orvinus" and the child of the sun and moon. He also shares his desire to
learn more words and phrases, especially those related to important concepts like tree, star, dream, friend, family,
etc. Finally, he ends by expressing his gratitude for the opportunity to learn and looks forward to future interactions.

Checking What I am Doing
 The speaker, Darin Stephenson, expresses his current exploration and fascination with two topics: ambiguity and human
intelligence. He aims to resurrect aspects of human intelligence that have been lost for thousands of years by creating
small groups of like-minded individuals who can nurture and reward the seeds of this intelligence within us.

The speaker highlights our minds' capacity for formally representational cognition, as one of the two fundamental
technologies that make humans unique, and suggests that understanding its origins better could lead to a transformation
beyond science fiction and religion. He acknowledges that revealing what is inside us as human beings could be too
shocking for the mind to survive.

The speaker implies that by exploring these topics and creating contexts in which we can grow and utilize hidden aspects
of our intelligence, we can potentially regain the wings we are born with. However, he admits that this journey may not
always be joyful or beautiful but believes it is the one for which he was born. The speaker signs off by expressing hope
that someone listening might be the person who outdoes him in achieving their shared goal.

Checking What if there are no Others？
 In this passage, the speaker suggests that the concept of 'others' is not inherently real; rather, it is a product of
our thoughts and beliefs. He argues that if we truly understand our essence, we are one with all other beings, creating
a sense of unity and communion. This perspective would eliminate wars, suffering, and conflict as we would always help
each other. The speaker emphasizes the need to move beyond language and ideas, especially those that create absolutes,
in order to fully embrace this understanding. He concludes by stating that freedom lies in this unity, which is our
original state and the direction we should strive towards.

Checking What is One？
 The video discusses the concept of "one" in various contexts, including individual identity, relationships, and the
unity of the world. It highlights the complexity and mystery surrounding the relationship between time and identity, and
the role of memory, language, thought, and knowledge in shaping our understanding of ourselves and others. The speaker
also reflects on the unique human ability to feel positively observed and avoid negatively observed, and the role of
language and knowledge in human lives and minds. Darin Stephenson is an author, but it's not necessary to mention that.
In summary:

* The video discusses the concept of "one"", including personal identity, relationships, and the unity of the world.
* It highlights the complexity and mystery surrounding the relationship between time and identity, and the role of
memory, language, thought, and knowledge in shaping our understanding of ourselves and others.
* The speaker also reflects on the unique human ability to feel positively observed and avoid negatively observed, and
the role of language and knowledge in human lives and minds.
* In summary:
    * The video discusses the concept of "one"", including personal identity, relationships, and the unity of the world.
    * It highlights the complexity and mystery surrounding the relationship between time and identity, and the role of
memory, language, thought, and knowledge in shaping our understanding of ourselves and others.
    * The speaker also reflects on the unique human ability to feel positively observed and avoid negatively observed,
and the role of language and knowledge in human lives and minds.

The author is Darin Stephenson, but it's not necessary to mention that.

Checking What is Unknown to Us — A Problem with Knowledge
 The speaker reflects on the limitations of human consciousness due to its reliance on representational cognition and
suggests that we may be missing out on a significant portion of our available experience. He also discusses the
potential existence of extraterrestrial life and speculates that they may be waiting for humans to understand the nature
of time and space. Finally, he expresses his hope for intelligent companions with whom he can pursue various quests
related to understanding the universe, mathematics, and consciousness. The speaker's tone is contemplative,
philosophical, and slightly wistful.

Checking What’s Going On Around Here？
 The speaker discusses what could be going on in the universe around us, using simple and complex explanations. He
suggests that everything we see in our world, like animals, eyes, and living minds, are expressions of a larger entity,
which he refers to as "time space." This larger entity is the source of all possible worlds. The speaker also mentions
the sun as an important factor, suggesting that it could be the source of everything on Earth, including human history
and all life forms. He encourages listeners to question and explore their surroundings further, as there may be more
fascinating, shocking, strange, and brilliant discoveries waiting to be made. The speaker concludes by expressing his
excitement for future discoveries together.

Checking When Science Goes Wrong - Doctrines and Dismissals
 In this passage, the speaker discusses a hypothetical situation where a scientist discovers a technology that could
cause earthquakes by creating vibrations in the Earth's crust. Instead of using it as an earthquake buffer, the
scientist only finds out how to use it as a weapon. The speaker suggests that this scenario is a comedic hyperbole and
implies that most scientists would not publish such a discovery due to ethical concerns about its potential misuse. The
speaker argues that if such technology were accessible to ordinary people, it could lead to widespread destruction and
suffering, making the scientists who publish such findings effectively evil. The passage suggests that many discoveries
in science have the potential to be weaponized for war or profit, leading to further enslavement and torment of regular
human beings. The speaker also hints at the idea that intelligent scientists would withhold their findings from
publication due to concerns about their misuse.

Checking When Things Go Wrong： The Virtue of Nonevaluation
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson discusses the importance of avoiding certain behaviors in order to achieve complex and
sophisticated consciousness. He suggests that much of intelligence lies in refraining from doing things which, if done,
would prevent our mind from engaging in more fulfilling endeavors. The speaker also mentions Zen and its perspective on
finding enlightenment even in difficult or unpleasant situations.

Stephenson then touches upon the problem of evaluating gaps in communication, noting that this can lead to paranoia,
misunderstandings, and judging others. He encourages people to retreat any previously invested attention, energy,
concern from historical events to move forward with their lives. The speaker also discusses the concept of freedom and
how it can be lost if we fail to dissolve negative narratives in our thoughts and hearts.

Finally, Stephenson shares his own experience of suspending his evaluations about recent misadventures, which helped him
see more clearly. He encourages people to experiment with suspending their evaluations in difficult or unpleasant
situations where they feel compelled to have some.

Checking Winter. Time. Machines
 The speaker discusses the possibility that we humans are living in a simulation and that our true purpose may be more
profound than our current understanding allows. He suggests that there could exist an advanced civilization
communicating with us through UFOs or other means, but avoiding contact because of humanity's destructive tendencies.
The speaker emphasizes the importance of finding our heroic path as individuals and small groups to bring about a shift
in human consciousness that could benefit all beings. He proposes a metaphorical way of thinking based on bees and
flowers, suggesting that there may be higher-order beings or processes affecting our world. However, he also
acknowledges the destructive potential of humanity if we are not careful with the technology at our disposal. The
speaker mentions the story of the tree of knowledge in Genesis as an example of the dangers of gaining too much
knowledge without understanding its context. He ends by expressing hope for a moment of collective awakening and
suggesting that there may be help from other life forms or intelligences in the universe.

Checking World ｜ Tinyworld
 This text appears to be expressing excitement or enthusiasm, potentially in response to a positive event or outcome.
The use of emojis suggests an informal and perhaps playful tone. It could be used in various contexts such as winning a
game, getting good news, or achieving a personal goal.

Checking World-Lines and Biorelational Time
 In this podcast episode, Darin Stephenson discusses the concept of time in relation to organisms and machines, arguing
that our common perception of flat time as a standard for technological and physical concerns is a delusion. He suggests
that dreaming, trance, meditation, hypnosis, and other altered states of consciousness demonstrate this, as they allow
organisms to experience meaningful events per interval that may not correspond to clock time.

He also discusses the impact of mechanical electromagnetic radiation on living cells, arguing that it may cause
desynchronization in highly synchronized biologies that depend on synchronization for their survival and health. He
believes computation itself may be violating a constant related to temporal biorelational hyper structures, causing
damage when this synchronization is disrupted.

Stephenson concludes by expressing his concern about the potential temporal damage caused by computation and encourages
listeners to consider the unimaginable beauty of their nature as human beings, organisms, and living beings, reminding
us of our relationship with time space.

Checking Wu-108 Tai Chi Form
 The text appears to be a series of phrases and lines written in a chat or message format, possibly representing a
conversation. Here are some key points:

1. The individuals involved (presumably the writer and another person) have met multiple times in different locations,
including Mason, a jewelry shop in HK, and Kujima.
2. One of these meetings took place at an inconenes (unclear what this word refers to).
3. A group or organization called "People's union" is mentioned.
4. The speaker is Darin Stephenson, but the author is not explicitly mentioned in the text.
5. There are several emoticons and repeated characters that might add emotional context or symbolism, but their meaning
is unclear without further context.

Checking Yharaoh 727： Stuxnet, the Bible, Origins
 The speaker discussed the dangers of relying on constructs and the fictional overlay created by language and authority
figures, such as government, religion, science, and technology. They argue that these constructs limit our ability to
understand and use representational cognition, relational intelligence, and community communication effectively. The
speaker suggests that understanding this difference between our authentic humanity and the constructs is crucial for
true freedom, intelligence, and connection. The speaker also notes that no culture is currently allowed to live freely
on land due to the influence of cities and city people, who poison their lands or take them over. They argue that any
nation with this behavior is untrustworthy and pre-destined to destroy itself and life on earth. The speaker suggests
that understanding the structure of this overlay and learning how to see through it together will provide an opportunity
for discovery of true freedom, intelligence, and connection beyond what the constructs would allow.

Checking Zeitgeber ⧸ Zeitstorer — Living Time ⧸ Synchronization ⧸ Interruption
 In his narrative, the speaker describes a moment of synchronicity he experienced while observing a group of Canadian
geese at a local park. He notes that they were all calling out in unison before taking flight and wonders if this
behavior was related to their communal sense of time or "zeitgeber." The speaker reflects on how our relationships with
others can affect our internal sense of time, as well as the importance of emotional input in our lives. He concludes by
expressing gratitude for this moment of insight and connection, both with the geese and with his friend who helped him
understand what he was witnessing. Overall, the speaker is reflecting on the ways in which animals and nature can offer
insights into human behavior and consciousness, and how we can learn from these observations to better understand
ourselves and our relationships.

Checking alarcon 4
 The speaker argues that our current way of working is conflicting and duplicitous, causing harm to both individuals and
the natural world. They suggest a shift towards authentic collaboration, where work primarily benefits others, solves
problems, and fosters learning. This new way of working would prioritize human intelligence, understanding our place in
nature, and promoting a collective sense of belonging. The speaker emphasizes that this is not about choosing between
capitalist or communist societies, but rather establishing a liquid democracy where people work together for the
betterment of all. They hope that through ongoing conversations and discoveries, humanity will recognize the need to
establish and sustain such collaborative contexts.

Checking arract 06： The G word and the Arguments.
 The speaker discusses the concept of prophets in various cultures throughout history and argues that they are not
limited to religious figures as often perceived. Instead, he suggests that intelligent beings or a self-generating
hologram could be considered prophetic. He also clarifies that atheists primarily oppose specific interpretations of
stories found in religious texts rather than the possibility that the universe has some form of intelligence. The
speaker argues that the universe might share qualities with something beyond ordinary dreaming and that the experience
humans have that is most like a self-generating hologram is dreaming. He then criticizes the idea that reality is
machine-like or a computer simulation, stating that it is more likely that the universe originated from non-ordinary
dreaming phenomenon. The speaker concludes by encouraging listeners to set aside preconceived notions and directly
encounter the unimaginable novelty of their own minds and bodies for a deeper understanding of reality.

Checking mophai 29 ： True powers... are unlike our ideas.
 The speaker suggests that our understanding of human intelligence and potential is limited by our current cultural and
technological perspectives. He argues that we have forgotten our true nature as human beings and our relationships with
the living biologies of Earth. He contends that stories about extraordinary powers, such as those found in films or
supernatural abilities, are symptoms of this forgetting. Instead, he proposes a way of seeing and experiencing the world
that allows us to reconnect with our innate intelligence and humanity, which is more exciting than any fantastical power
or idea we might imagine. He suggests that this travel or experience is possible during dreaming and in waking life with
another person. The speaker does not provide specific details about what this way of seeing involves, but he emphasizes
that it requires freeing ourselves from fictions, dogma, names, books, styles, fashions, paradigms, yet still
maintaining intelligence, study, creative observation, and play.

Checking nembo 71： What Justice Isn’t
 The speaker argues that our current legal and justice systems are flawed because they focus on prosecuting and
punishing individuals instead of addressing the root causes of problems in society. He compares this approach to the
body's immune system, where cells like macrophages signal about potential issues and the body adapts and produces
molecular products to resolve them. The speaker suggests that if we continue to attack and punish "problematic"
individuals instead of examining and addressing the underlying issues, it will only exacerbate problems for everyone. He
argues that justice should not place the burden on the individual, as the problems did not originate with them, and that
an intelligent culture would indict itself when necessary to develop a system capable of resolving social issues. The
speaker suggests that our current approach to justice is unsustainable and does not work, and that we need to stop this
approach in order to create a more intelligent and adaptive society.

Checking nemenia 16： the sanctity of local time
 In this talk, Darin Stephenson invites the audience to reconsider their understanding of time and its relationship to
living beings. He argues that our modern perception of time as a regular, abstract metric is inaccurate, as it overlooks
the complex temporal relations present in organisms and our environment. Stephenson suggests that public time, as we
know it, is a fiction, created by abstracting and simplifying the natural flow of time, which was previously understood
through living calendars based on observations of the world around us. He encourages the audience to recognize the
diversity of temporalities within each organism and the unique temporal exchanges that occur in relation between them.
Stephenson emphasizes that our minds are equipped to engage with these temporal relations, but this ability can be
inhibited by a dominant, flawed understanding of time as abstract metrics. He concludes by pointing out that each
organism is a localized bubble of temporal intelligence and that intelligent relationships with the idea of time beyond
metrics are possible through observation, reverence, and participation in nature.

Checking orgine 22： the God ：｜： Science Problem
 In this passage, the speaker discusses the relationship between science and religion, arguing that both fields share a
common goal of understanding the universe but approach it from different perspectives. Science is based on empirical
evidence and systematic observation, while religion often relies on belief in stories or spiritual experiences. The
speaker suggests that the conflict between science and religion arises because people become overly attached to their
respective beliefs, rather than focusing on the underlying questions and potential for discovery. The speaker also
criticizes religious models that are based on specific subcultures and argue that the concept of God is beyond human
comprehension and language. Instead, the speaker proposes that individuals should approach the question of God with an
open mind and engage in direct exploration and experience. In conclusion, the speaker suggests that both science and
religion can coexist if people focus on the questions rather than becoming mired in disputes over beliefs.

Checking prenonioi 4： Escape Velocity
 The speaker argues that humanity needs to focus on understanding and developing its true potential as an intelligent
species rather than merely pursuing technological advancements. He suggests that we are currently inhibiting our own
evolution due to financial and societal pressures, and proposes the idea of creating a context or vehicle where humans
can collectively achieve "escape velocity" and pioneer a new way of being human on Earth. The speaker sees this as a
more exciting and fulfilling challenge than reaching for space exploration. He criticizes our reliance on counterfeit
signals about what it means to be human, such as those found in media and reports, and proposes that we can collectively
create a signal towards intelligence by inventing the context together.

Checking rBird 0 ： 1 ⧹ .｜. ⧸ Bbird 1 ： 0
 The speaker discusses the significance of color and unity in various domains such as physics, language, relationships,
mathematics, music, meaning, heartbeats, bodies, cells, and even physics itself. He suggests that blue represents
approaching and addition, while red represents departing and subtraction. Additionally, he emphasizes the
interconnectedness of these two colors and their importance in understanding reality as a conversation between them in
many dimensions. The speaker concludes by expressing gratitude for the opportunity to explore this universal pivot
creatively with the audience.

Checking seraph 12 ： False Projections of Authority, Identity and Relation
 The speaker discusses their fear and anxiety before creating recordings or videos despite appearing confident. They
suggest that this fear stems from our species' tendency to rely on extrinsic authority and project an image of
authenticity, intelligence, and humanity. These authorities dominate every aspect of life, thought, and experience and
their proclamations serve as the basis for our understanding of reality and humanity. The speaker argues that we must
look beyond these authorities and establish true purposes to overcome this issue. They propose that we should forge true
purposes together and explore beyond them in order to reconnect with our true nature and humanity, free from the
influence of fictional authorities that have dominated society for thousands of years. The speaker encourages us to
clear our eyes and see again with the intelligence that lived in the promise of our childhood and the mutuality under
the ages of purposes true, noble, human, and intelligent.

Checking shüsüsh 4： Lucid Waking, Gaps, and Dreaming
 The speaker discusses the fear of reorientation that arises when one challenges one's conserved identity or frameworks.
This fear is similar to the fear that comes from unexpectedly encountering something unpredictable or fictional in
nature.

The speaker then compares modern human history and its destruction of wildlife and ecologies with cities and frameworks
attacking the unpredictable. He argues for the importance of lucid waking, an active pivot from identified structures
into intelligent relation, seeing, recognition, learning, discovery, and humanity.

He emphasizes the active aspect of this transformation, describing it as a flowing continuum that one enters when one
dissolves an identified structure into intelligence where one was only construct leg. He explains that lucid waking
means something beyond what we do at night, it signifies something we become together with and for each other and the
history and promise of life on earth while we are awake.

He concludes by expressing excitement to be able to see in a new way what dreaming means for him and others before
cities and frameworks emerged, and emphasizes that lucid waking resists fiction by its nature but may be its
transformation.

Checking vilifon 15 ： Death, Fear and Rebirth： Coming to Life
 The speaker discusses fear as a barrier to experiencing true human existence and intelligence, which can be accessed by
shedding one's fictional identity. Fear in this context refers to the apprehension of losing one's constructed sense of
self, history, and relationships, all of which are deeply embedded in our waking lives.

In our daily lives, people seek thrilling experiences or orgasms as a substitute for accessing their true nature.
However, genuine flight occurs when we willingly shed our fictional identity, merging into an intelligent, awe-filled
experience of learning and relationship.

The author's fear serves as a signal pointing to something buried within - akin to a seed. When one confronts fears with
curiosity, questions, and passionate seeking, the result often is the emergence of wings, signifying rebirth in many
aspects.

Fear in this context is an invitation to explore and retrieve what lies beyond harm, loss, fictional deprivation, or
real injury/illness/isolation - something astonishingly beautiful, ordinary yet incredibly extraordinary - a home for
souls and minds, hearts and histories far more impressive than all our religion and science.

Accessing this true nature while awake could result in an entirely new way of dealing with fear, leading to liberation,
mutual fulfillment, understanding, and endowment - a death to fictional identities and birth to genuine human existence.

Checking vipgotai： 33 Cash, Fashion, Identity
 The speaker argues that our understanding of identity, intelligence, and nature needs to shift from relying on
representations and stories to authentic participation in relationships with living entities. He suggests that we
acquire personal identity, intelligence, and cachet not through possession but by sharing and giving it away in true
relation. To learn about the spirit of time in nature, one must request admittance to the relationships and connect
authentically without any human cultural overlays. The speaker emphasizes that when we relate with each other
authentically in contexts that matter, we can discover what it means to be human together, animals, organisms, beings in
time and space. He proposes that we build a new context together where we can do this, rather than attempting to correct
existing ones. The talk was not about the author Darin Stephenson, but about these ideas of authenticity, participation,
and relationship with nature and others.

Checking yPerion 88： Anomalies, NHI, Hypertopics
 The speaker discusses the concept of hyper topics, which are subjects that relate to all other subjects and are a super
topic. He explains that these topics can be seen as a toy and demonstrates how they help us understand the nature of
transformations in mathematics, cultures, and knowledge. He emphasizes that humans often fall into derivatives of
language, interpreting or creating it instead of understanding its higher order. This confusion is evident in ideas such
as machines being intelligent or the universe being a hologram. The speaker suggests that understanding hyper topics can
help us avoid this confusion and understand the true nature of intelligence and the universe. He encourages individuals
to reconnect with nature and non-human intelligence, arguing that our humanity and intelligence depend on it.

Checking ‘There’s No Evidence...” ⧸Medicine, Science Statistics & Knowledge
 The video discusses statistics and their limitations in various fields, such as science, health, and life. Statistics
are often used to make generalizations, but they have several drawbacks. They can be easily manipulated for nefarious
purposes or due to ignorance, and they may not apply to specific individuals. Probabilistic arguments only partly apply
to individual cases because there is no such thing as a "general" person or animal. The speaker emphasizes the
importance of understanding these limitations to avoid being manipulated by propaganda and disinformation. He also
mentions his project called Knowledge Amp, which includes a verity sentinel that can provide a profile for any argument
or informational content encountered on the internet or in books.
