everybody see how regular that is if you
look here right you'll see it's
reflection you'll see like rectangles
and squares and stuff and if you look
you'll see that all the cars they're all
based on the same sort of organizing
principle I don't have a lot of time
right now because I'm outside and that
means I don't have a lot of light and in
case it is an obvious light and time
might be different aspects of the same
thing but that's not what I want to talk
about today what I want to talk about
today though it might be related is a
particular aspect of the I want to talk
about validation right and
authorization and authority in a very
specific way since I have again what
seems to me to be a relatively brief
amount of time so this video will
probably be relatively short compared to
my others I am at a street corner and by
the way these lights change the human
relationship of time and they use colors
to indicate that relationship green
essentially means liberty yellow means
caution slow down wait red means stop
now because we're poorly educated about
time because our languages and social
systems and authorities give us things
like smartphones or when I was a child
watches we're very confused about the
nature of time and we think the time is
a constant it flows at a single rate
even though we have experiences like
dreaming or ecstasy or boredom which
radically transform our human experience
of time and I'll talk about this at
length some other time but for the
moment I want to make clear that time is
not only related to the number of
meaningful events per selected interval
which is a second or a minute or an
hour it's also our experience of time
is related to all kinds of a manifold of
variables so that we say
you know I've just left the street right
and the kinds of events that are likely
to happen on the street and and thus the
intrinsic temporality of the street are
very different from the kinds of events
and thus the essential temporality of
this garden where hummingbird is tending
some flowers and there are many there
are many hummingbirds here and this is
the Brugamensia which is slowly opening
its blossoms at a rate I cannot visually
detect but I'm nonetheless of somehow
aware of time in here is about living
relationships time out there is about
machines and pavement primarily and so we
can see there are radically different
forms of temporality right next to each
other in our human experience and many
of us don't really understand how to
make sense how to make meaningful useful
valuable sense of the kind of time that
happens in living relationships and
places and beings but my my simple point
was our experiences of temporality are
informed by the rate at which meaningful
events occur and the types of meaningful
events that occur during that rate
a friend of mine often returns rattlesnakes
to what we might think of as a snake
city although it's not really a city it's
more of a commune and those are called
hibernacula and I am somewhat concerned
not supposed to touch our faces but when
my hands are covered with sage oil I'm
going to break the rule momentarily
also my hands are clean I just left my
house well clean is a relative idea now
notice that whether something is clean
or not requires that I invoke a kind of
authority right a judge I have to
determine I have to think back I have to
evaluate have to do an analysis to
determine whether something's clean and
I have to do a similar thing just to
emit a sentence to you my sentences
undergo a subconscious array of
authorization procedures and if you will
look very closely at all into the
foundations of human nature and
cognition the actual stuff not the
stories we tell you will discover I'm
selecting blackberries here I'm sorry
blueberries
hmm wow you will discover that
authorization schemas underlie much of
what we do in and with our minds and
they also underlie the structure and
behavior of our social economic sexual
relational intellectual cognitive
physical metabolic situations as
organisms so for example in the physical
sense your immune system is an authority
it goes around determining that belongs
here that doesn't this is me that isn't
and it responds and triggers cascades of
metabolic events based on those
evaluations
though many of us are now familiar with
an originally radical idea that our
guts were our second brains and I will
like to correct that and just let you
know guts pre-existed brains for six
sevenths of the history of life on earth
so for most of the history of life on
earth there were no brains there were
just guts so really brains are our
second brains guts are probably our
first brains but I have a friend who
might argue that no even that seemingly
radical position is confused something
resembling the immune system is our
first brain or our second right it
learns it it makes the distinction
between self and other right and that's
a fundamental physical metabolic
distinction with really serious
consequences as we can currently
surmise given that we are presently
responding societally around the world
to a problem that deeply involves the
authorities in each specific person's
immune system and some of the damage
that we suffer from disease and from
illness is actually the sort of
opportunity cost of having an immune
system at all right when you feel achy
and sick when you're getting for example
the flu that's because millions of
cells or some vast number of cells
throughout your body are having to
produce complex proteins based on
instructions from your immune system
once they've determined that there's a
dangerous invader present and in case
that isn't in case this isn't clear
that's a matter of authorization right
true or false is that me or not and it
occurred to me the other day because I
think a lot about topics related to this
how do we deal with authorization
cognitively how do we deal with it
socially what it what are its what's
the relation between authorization and
intelligence or you know communication
because it has a lot of impact right
like if you log into a website yeah the
first thing that's gonna happen if you
have an account there right is that
you're gonna go through an
authorization process you're gonna ID
yourself yeah you're gonna say no this
isn't some random dude and this isn't
some guy pretending to be me this is
actually me and the systems that we
built to functionally accomplish that
authorization mimic vastly more complex
and astonishingly sophisticated ancient
features in nature nature is filled with
authorization schemas or something we can
see that way if we're so inclined if it
is our purpose to look you know from
that perspective and the other day I
was just thinking about something really
simple which is actually relevant to my
situation in the moment because I told
you I was running out of light right and
there's a way in which the situation of
running out of light can be seen if one
again if one has the purpose to do so as
running out of truth because as I run
out of light I'm running out of
specificity I'm running out of deep
disambiguation right and truth is the
result of a cascade of processes of
disambiguation and that happens in the
in the immune system it happens when I'm
attempting to produce a sentence the
next one that will come out of me right
now all these things involve something
very similar to disambiguation which is
the fundamental character aspect of the
activity of the the the parts of our
waking mind engaged in thinking
evaluating making truth claims evaluating
truth claims so on and so forth and these
topics are so rich that I could spend
hours happily exploring them but I'm
running out of light which means I'm
running out of time and in a sense that
means I'm running out of the stuff we
make disambiguation from and in case
that isn't clear just notice that as it
gets dark people go to sleep and when
they go to sleep they will tend to dream
and dreaming will introduce ambiguity
into the otherwise modest you know
relatively disambiguous or
disambiguated experience of identity
and judgment and authorization that
evaluation and analysis and so on and so
forth but the other day I was realizing
that the ideas of true and false while
extremely useful in certain contexts
for example mathematics yeah the
asserted outcome of evaluating and
evaluating an equation as true or false
is fundamentally useful in understanding
the structure and necessities of accurate
mathematics so there are certainly
there's a scope there's there's a range
of contexts in which true or false
having this simple binary choice and
sort of the law of the excluded middle
right in other words a statement that
is not true must be false to codify
that law which isn't actually a law
it's a rule and that rule is subject to
complex decomposition in various contexts
in which it is important to decompose it
but truth and falsity right black or
white if we're going to use a visual
example yeah I'm going to use the
example that white is truth and black is
falseness now of course if we simply
introduce to true and false one more
position which is the position of
unknown we get a vastly greater breadth
or range of possible evaluative
consequences right evaluative outcomes
but if we imagine that truth is white
and falseness is black and we move the
analogy to vision we will realize that
again outside of the contexts in which
we can and should assert the logical
consequence of evaluation that being that
a statement is either true or it must be
false and taking into account the law
the excluded middle and so on and so
forth there is a narrow scope there's a
narrow range of contexts in which that
behavior is not only useful it is
necessary but outside of that range we
might be deceived if we think for
example that very complex assertions or
beliefs or opinions or declarations
that are in their nature fundamentally
nuanced right if we subject them to the
relatively crippling simplicity of a
bipolar outcome right it's true or it's
false we lose most of what's going on if
you could only see if there was only
brightness or darkness right you wouldn't
be able to see there wouldn't be
anything like shade right and if we
want in brightness to see we need to be
unblinded by just pure white light right
and if we want in darkness to see we
need to be unblinded by just the pure
absence of light we need some nuance and
we might need a sophisticated interplay
of light and darkness we might need
shadow we might need gradients right and
we might even need multiple kinds of
gradients in multiple domains for example
those of us who are not entirely color
blind in the daytime we see color right
which which we can deconstruct in
different ways we can say like we can
use the hue saturation brightness model
there there are other models and these
are continuums right these are complex
continuum yeah because we have a few in
this case hue saturation and brightness
we will have degrees of each kind and
hue can be decomposed into like CMYK
Sam magenta yellow black and so on and
so forth or can be decomposed into RGB
red green blue so to see with the eyes
like ours which are an astonishing
luxury by the way I mean I think very
few if there are many living worlds in
space very few of them last like on very
few of them were there such long periods
of relative ecological stability that
organisms could produce these fucking
things and sustain them and like
instance them throughout the entire
like animalian you know catalog of
animalian species successfully wildly
with you know the difference between
like compound eyes and and man mammalian
eyes and the eyes of octopi and yeah I
mean it's just crazy what we've got
around here it's it's so luxurious that
I think we're wildly spoiled primarily
because we just haven't been punished
enough to understand how luxurious it
actually it is it is where we live here
how we live you know how we exist here
and our our bodies and their faculties
and how rare this might be in all of
time space I mean if I were to just like
point at the sky right and you were to
follow my finger and just draw a
straight line the chance that you would
encounter anything like this along that
line negligible right you could
probably go the wild guess here but I'm
guessing you could go like a million
light years along that line you wouldn't
find one of these so what we've got here
is incredibly precious and rare I think
and I have relatively good reasons to
think so even if others might want to
question my authority in that regard so
my first point is that while true and
false are absolutely necessary and work
really well in contexts that they are
appropriate to they're absolutely
insufficient to understand complex
phenomenon right and whether a statement
about something is true or false may
actually be the wrong fucking question
right in many cases the formulation of
the question the purposes that underlie
it its goals the agenda of the
questioner the agendas of those who
respond all of these things are
important but we need a lot more nuance
than true and false right and we need to
have conscious recognition right that
of that nuance yeah of the of the
manifold of related shadings of
trustworthy derivations imaginative
perspectives untrustworthy derivations
and so on and so forth because black by
itself and white by itself it sucks
right it's really useful in the domains
it's really useful like I said in
mathematical evaluations and things like
this or in in very simple questions like
did you just touch my ear right I can
answer definitively that none of you
just touched my ear it is true none of
you just did that physically but only in
very simplistic domains is that sufficient
and so I just want to introduce the
idea that most of the stuff about which
humans argue has wildly diverse arrays
of different qualities and features and
in fact how we slice up that pie will
depend upon our purposes in looking at
it right why did we choose to examine it
at all this is these questions become
much more important than the answers you
know is it true or is it not true that
such-and-such happened here and this
implies that such-and-such will happen
elsewhere which is a common point of
argument in our currently very bizarre
highly ambiguous social situations
relational situations with knowledge
with contagion with the immune system
and so on what you actually have is
something so unimaginably complex
that it's extremely difficult to make
very simple accurate statements about it
what we can do is come down either on
the side of in caution on the side of
caution or on the side of belligerence
right those are pretty much the options
that were presented with although again
I caught that pie in a certain way in
those three ways for the purposes I had
in mind right so what I am hoping to get
people to see what I'm hoping I may
inspire my viewers to understand is
that the politics of truth and falsehood
are much more complex than they appear
if we deal with them too casually
now hopefully I've mostly succeeded at
that simple task there is a limited
amount of remaining light left at the
moment although the phone kind of
produces some light and it makes it
adjusts the camera adjusts and thus
mechanically introduces more illuminate
more illumination than my eyes are
seeing right now and the camera has all
kinds of other weird features if I see
the moon rising at the horizon and it is
so gigantic that I'm afraid it's going
to crash into the earth and I put my
camera at it looks tiny the camera does
not see what my eyes see in fact the
camera does not see at all the camera
has a mechanical relationship with light
perspective color so on so forth and so
it not only records things that aren't
there it fails to record things that are
there and since we use cameras all the
time it strikes me that our minds acquire
I've long been aware that our minds
acquire characteristic abilities and
disabilities from the tools we are most
commonly employing with them and the
other day a friend of mine and I were
talking about hands which I think are
one of the most amazing things nature
ever produced wings are pretty good eyes
are amazing I mean it's all good ears
mouths skin fur claws that stuff is
amazing but hands are particularly
strange because they gave us a sort of
fake evolutionary path right we could
we could start making things now we
could we could build things and we can
gesture and we can manipulate you know do
fine motor manipulation and build things
like the the smartphone the smartphone
I'm holding in my hand and so on and so
forth but there's another thing we can
build because we have hands and it's this
kind of stuff right we can build
structures housing cars and we can
regularize shit we can chop off that
round stuff get rid of that right can
just totally make shit into squares and
rectangles now a friend of mine was
talking to me I'm not sure this topic is
related but I wanted to share it anyway
a friend of mine Laura was talking with
me today about an architect who had
learned to incorporate all kinds of
features that that he had observed in
nature into his ideas for building
structures and how incredibly difficult
this was for him and how he was
largely ignored and unemployed and but
yet was just courageously continuing on
this path and I tried to explain to my
friend who was telling me about this
architect that this was entirely natural
and the reason that it was natural one
of the most important reasons again
returning to nuance rather than true or
false one or zero right
there are usually a constellation of
things going on yeah and the humans
have this habit in language of distilling
them down to one the sort of you know
msd right the most significant
derivation and that's a mistake because
we we lose our relationship with the
with a natural complexity of life and
thought and evaluation and understanding
and awareness and you don't want to keep
doing that like it's really nice to have
five fingers here I don't want to go to
like the most significant finger every
time that would suck and in fact in
trying to play an instrument it would
really suck in trying to build something
or tie a fly or you know do do work on
a watch or smartphone or computer it
would just suck to have just one finger
but we do this all the time cognitively
particularly if we're frustrated
frightened angry projecting obsessive
threatened and so on so forth in any
case the problem for this architect is
kind of one of the main problems is kind
of simple see how I said the problem
instead of a problem very important to
notice this distinction between ah and
the right ah means one of some number
the means the only one right the one
you have to pay attention to the
significant one but the problem for this
architect is kind of simple all the
systems that were developed to analyze
and authorize construction projects were
developed to build square and rectangular
shit start building round shit stuff
that has curves and bizarre unexpected
asymmetries and things that look a lot
like I don't know you know these trees
right that are irregular even though
there's a theme of regularity in their
structure a theme the humans mistakenly
refer to as fractaling we need a much
better word for that and a completely
different idea but in any case the
problem is that the systems the humans
have put in place to analyze evaluate
and authorize the construction of things
where there's risk right like a bridge
or a building where there's a risk that
it'll fall down or collapse or something
like that all of those systems that were
put in place to make it more convenient
for us to validate a design we're
engineered for familiar forms of
buildings and if as an architect you
start producing wildly unfamiliar forms
of buildings what you're going to find
is those systems are incapable of
validating your constructs and those
systems are pretty much binary right so
either you've produced a blueprint or a
plan that is coherent in the validation
systems to which it will be subject or
not right it's yes or no it's true or
false and if your blueprint or design is
incoherent in relation to those systems
that ordinarily validate it right
planning the people who are
responsible for building codes and
planning codes and for whether or not
the projects we suggest fit in to the
projects by which they will be
surrounded yeah if you produce something
that doesn't fit in they don't go ahead
and evaluate it right it's simply
understood that it doesn't fit in so
either it fits in enough that the
systems in place to authorize it can
determine whether or not to do so or it
is unauthorized it is therefore invalid
and this is one of the problems we get
into when we use binary systems that
determine whether something is sort of
comprehensible by a set of codes yeah
the building codes for example now the
building codes are very useful and they
they give us a lot of value and
convenience but they produce highly
regularized crap like that yeah and they
do something similar with our minds our
memories our imaginations our
potentials to see and give birth to
novelty to relate with our human
experience in novel ways there's all
these codes right and for for humans
most of them are unwritten it's not
like the building codes although lots of
them are written to we have laws and we
have religions and we have philosophies
and we have economic policies and so on
and so forth
unfortunately those things while they do
provide some convenient utility they
amputate a lot of the inherent novelty
intelligence faculties and capacities
that are implicit to the deepest and
most vital layers of our organismal and
human essence and so while we would not
want to dismiss them they are insufficient
this now of course this are regarding
this architect there are many architects
who had similar dreams right they were
like I want to make things that have
never been made before and mostly what
they did although there are some
exceptions you know once you're
considered to be a raging prodigy or a
genius or something like this then you're
a little more you have a little more
liberty in your relationship with codes
and you can find yourself in a situation
where for example some group of people
hire you to make a radical rounded dome
like exotic structure and actually want
you to do that and are thus willing to
sort of learn your methods and do the
work to evaluate whether you know one of
their jobs is to determine whether a
structure is safe and stable and so on
so they can learn and do the work
necessary to make those evaluations and
the building gets built even though it's
radical but that's only if you've
already sort of won enough market share
in terms of popularity right or your
social face so to speak has become so
famous that you're a Le Corbusier or a
Frank Lloyd Wright or a Buckminster Fuller
maybe he was a little questionable
something like this yeah my god so it's
so weird to see the difference between
the camera and what I'm seeing but just
to show you what I'm seeing here's some
of it as the sun sets now
you know one of the weirdest things that
humans do in my view they do lots of
weird things around regularizing stuff
but one of the weirdest things they do
I mean if you just look right everything
is square like all look at all that
squareness and it's just nothing like
there's no square part of me there's
nothing on me that's square but one of
the weirdest things we do and I
understand that you know there's some
explanation for it it's just so funny
like there's these you know rectangular
fence posts and stuff and there's all of
this organism growing like just
trying to obliterate it right and given
a shot the organism would win real quick
but one of the weirdest things the
humans do is they make square beehives
and I totally get like that you can
maximize and make very convenient the
extraction of honey from combs I doubt
very profoundly that bees make square
hives it's just not fucking doesn't make
any sense anyway my point with the
architect was this if your suggestion is
so radical that the powers that be
the systems in place to validate and
authorize things cannot parse it right
it doesn't fit into their their method
that means it's invalid that that
validates it if it can't be easily
analyzed and doesn't fit into the
systems of authorization currently at
play then it's invalid by default
because those systems have to produce a
relatively binary result right either
we've examined the properties of that
which has been blueprinted or planned or
suggested and we have determined that
they are good and safe and will work or
we have determined that they are not say
they're unsafe and will not work those
systems eject stuff that doesn't fit
into their evaluative schemas so the
architect as brilliant as he might be
unless he first becomes famous is going
like every single one of his blueprints
is going to get rejected not because
it's not stable or unsafe but because
the systems to which he is subject as
an architect the planners and building
code evaluators and so on and so forth
they're they're not equipped to determine
whether his designs are safe or stable
and if they're not equipped they're
going to come down the side of safety
they're going to reject those systems
similarly true and false are
insufficiently nuanced for most of what
it means to be human and to have
thoughts and ideas for now I'll leave you
with that I look forward to your
comments or questions in the in in in the
threads I can see Venus Sun is setting
it's a beautiful it's a beautiful
evening hope you're well and safe bye
bye for now
